Donate Today! Become a Member Donate Now! One Time Monthly In Memory In Honor Become a Member En Español Type 1 Type 2 About Us Online Community Meal Planning Sign In Search: Search More Sites Search ≡ Are You At Risk? Diabetes Basics Living with Diabetes Food & Fitness In My Community Advocacy Research & Practice Ways to Give En Español Close Are You at Risk? Home Prevention         Diagnosing Diabetes and Learning About Prediabetes           Type 2 Diabetes Risk Test Lower Your Risk Healthy Eating Overweight Smoking High Blood Pressure Physical Activity High Blood Glucose My Health Advisor Tools To Know Your Risk Alert Day Diabetes Basics Home Symptoms Diagnosis America's Diabetes Challenge Type 1 Type 2 Facts About Type 2 Enroll in the Living WIth Type 2 Diabetes Program Gestational What is Gestational Diabetes? How to Treat Gestational Diabetes Genetics of Diabetes Diabetes Myths A Day in the Life of Diabetes Famous People Working to Stop Diabetes Common Terms Diabetes Statistics Infographics Living with Diabetes Home Recently Diagnosed Where Do I Begin With Type2? Living With Type 1 Diabetes Enroll in the Living WIth Type 2 Diabetes Program We Can Help Center for Information Legal Assistance Success Stories Complications Hypoglycemia Hyperglycemia Skin Complications Eye Complications Neuropathy Foot Complications DKA (Ketoacidosis) & Ketones Kidney Disease (Nephropathy) Gastroparesis Mental Health Step On Up Treatment & Care Blood Glucose Testing Medication Doctors, Nurses & More Oral Health & Hygiene Women A1C Insulin Pregnancy 8 Tips for Caregivers Health Insurance Health Insurance Update The Health Insurance Marketplace Health Insurance From an Employer Options for the Uninsured Medicare Medicaid & CHIP     For Parents & Kids Safe at School Everyday Life Children and Type 2 Diabetes Know Your Rights Employment Discrimination Health Care Professionals Law Enforcement Driver's License For Lawyers     Food & Fitness Home Food MyFoodAdvisor Recipes Association Cookbook Recipes Planning Meals Diabetes Meal Plans Create Your Plate Gluten Free Diets Meal Planning for Vegetarian Diets Cook with Heart-Healthy Foods Holiday Meal Planning What Can I Eat? Making Healthy Food Choices Diabetes Superfoods Non-starchy Vegetables Grains and Starchy Vegetables Fats Alcohol What Can I Drink? Fruit Dairy Food Tips Eating Out Quick Meal Ideas Snacks Nutrient Content Claims Understanding Carbohydrates Types of Carbohydrates Carbohydrate Counting Make Your Carbs Count Glycemic Index Low-Calorie Sweeteners Sugar and Desserts Fitness Exercise & Type 1 Diabetes Get Started Safely Get And Stay Fit Types of Activity Weight Loss Assess Your Lifestyle Getting Started Food Choices In My Community Home Find Your Local Office Find your local diabetes education program Calendar of Events Wellness Lives Here Awareness Programs Hispanic Heritage Month African American Programs Latino Programs Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders American Indian/Alaska Native Programs Older Adults Family Link Diabetes EXPO Upcoming Diabetes EXPOs EXPO Volunteer Opportunities Sponsorship and Exhibit Opportunities Diabetes Camp Learning at Camp Find a Camp Apply for Camp Fundraising Events Step Out: Walk to Stop Diabetes Tour de Cure Father of the Year Stop Diabetes at School Tour de Cure Women's Series Rip's B.A.D. Ride Do-It-Yourself Fundraising Volunteer Center American Diabetes Month® American Diabetes Association Alert Day® Become a Member Advocacy Home Take Action Advocacy Priorities State Priorities Federal Priorities Advocacy Accomplishments Legal Advocacy Health Disparities Hometown Advocacy Easy Advocacy Checklists for Association Events Messaging Tools Recruiting Advocates Local Market Planning Training Webinars News & Events Advocacy News Call to Congress The Cost of Diabetes Research & Practice Home We Are Research Leaders World's Largest Diabetes Meeting Recent Advances Type 1 Research Highlights Research Excellence Honorees How Grant Money is Divided Funding the Next Generation of Brilliant Researchers Our Research Foundation Diabetes Pro: Professional Resources Online We Support Your Doctor Clinical Practice Guidelines Patient Education Materials Scientific Sessions Journals for Professionals Professional Books Patient Access to Research Student Resources History of Diabetes Resources for School Projects How to Reference Our Site Diabetes Basics Myths Common Terms Research Resources Research Grant Programs Pathway to Stop Diabetes Scientific Sessions Journals for Professionals Professional Membership Association-Funded Research Practice Resources Patient Materials Clinical Practice Guidelines Scientific Sessions Journals for Professionals Books for Practitioners Professional Membership Please Join Us in the Fight for a Cure Your tax-deductible gift today can fund critical diabetes research and support vital diabetes education services that improve the lives of those with diabetes. $50 $75 $100 $200 $500 Other Give one-time Give monthly Give in honor Give in memory Donate Now Why Give? Nearly 30 million battle diabetes and every 23 seconds someone new is diagnosed. Diabetes causes more deaths a year than breast cancer and AIDS combined. Your gift today will help us get closer to curing diabetes and better treatments for those living with diabetes. Other Ways to Give Become a Member Vehicle Donation Planned Giving Options Do-it-Yourself Fundraising & Local Events Matching Gift Fundraising Events Donate Stocks Give by Phone 1-800-DIABETES (800-342-2383) Give by Mail Close www.diabetes.org > Diabetes Basics > Statistics Share: Print Page Text Size: A A A Listen En Español Statistics About Diabetes Data from the National Diabetes Statistics Report, 2014 (released June 10, 2014) Overall Numbers, Diabetes and Prediabetes Prevalence: In 2012, 29.1 million Americans, or 9.3% of the population, had diabetes. Approximately 1.25 million American children and adults have type 1 diabetes. Undiagnosed: Of the 29.1 million, 21.0 million were diagnosed, and 8.1 million were undiagnosed. Prevalence in Seniors: The percentage of Americans age 65 and older remains high, at 25.9%, or 11.8 million seniors (diagnosed and undiagnosed). New Cases: 1.4 million Americans are diagnosed with diabetes every year. Prediabetes: In 2012, 86 million Americans age 20 and older had prediabetes; this is up from 79 million in 2010. Deaths: Diabetes remains the 7th leading cause of death in the United States in 2010, with 69,071 death certificates listing it as the underlying cause of death, and a total of 234,051 death certificates listing diabetes as an underlying or contributing cause of death. Diabetes in Youth About 208,000 Americans under age 20 are estimated to have diagnosed diabetes, approximately 0.25% of that population. In 2008—2009, the annual incidence of diagnosed diabetes in youth was estimated at 18,436 with type 1 diabetes, 5,089 with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes by Race/Ethnicity The rates of diagnosed diabetes by race/ethnic background are: 7.6% of non-Hispanic whites 9.0% of Asian Americans 12.8% of Hispanics 13.2% of non-Hispanic blacks 15.9% of American Indians/Alaskan Natives The breakdown among Asian Americans: 4.4% for Chinese 11.3% for Filipinos 13.0 for Asian Indians 8.8% for other Asian Americans. The breakdown among Hispanic adults: 8.5% for Central and South Americans 9.3% for Cubans 13.9% for Mexican Americans 14.8% for Puerto Ricans. Deaths Diabetes was the seventh leading cause of death in the United States in 2010 based on the 69,071 death certificates in which diabetes was listed as the underlying cause of death. In 2010, diabetes was mentioned as a cause of death in a total of 234,051 certificates. Diabetes may be underreported as a cause of death. Studies have found that only about 35% to 40% of people with diabetes who died had diabetes listed anywhere on the death certificate and about 10% to 15% had it listed as the underlying cause of death. Complications/Co-Morbid Conditions Hypoglycemia: In 2011, about 282,000 emergency room visits for adults aged 18 years or older had hypoglycemia as the first-listed diagnosis and diabetes as another diagnosis. Hypertension: In 2009–2012, of adults aged 18 years or older with diagnosed diabetes, 71% had blood pressure greater than or equal to 140/90 millimeters of mercury or used prescription medications to lower high blood pressure. Dyslipidemia: In 2009–2012, of adults aged 18 years or older with diagnosed diabetes, 65% had blood LDL cholesterol greater than or equal to 100 mg/dl or used cholesterol-lowering medications. CVD Death Rates: In 2003–2006, after adjusting for population age differences, cardiovascular disease death rates were about 1.7 times higher among adults aged 18 years or older with diagnosed diabetes than among adults without diagnosed diabetes. Heart Attack Rates: In 2010, after adjusting for population age differences, hospitalization rates for heart attack were 1.8 times higher among adults aged 20 years or older with diagnosed diabetes than among adults without diagnosed diabetes. Stroke: In 2010, after adjusting for population age differences, hospitalization rates for stroke were 1.5 times higher among adults with diagnosed diabetes aged 20 years or older compared to those without diagnosed diabetes. Blindness and Eye Problems: In 2005–2008, of adults with diabetes aged 40 years or older, 4.2 million (28.5%) people had diabetic retinopathy, damage to the small blood vessels in the retina that may result in loss of vision. Kidney Disease: Diabetes was listed as the primary cause of kidney failure in 44% of all new cases in 2011. In 2011, 49,677 people of all ages began treatment for kidney failure due to diabetes. In 2011, a total of 228,924 people of all ages with kidney failure due to diabetes were living on chronic dialysis or with a kidney transplant. Amputations: In 2010, about 73,000 non-traumatic lower-limb amputations were performed in adults aged 20 years or older with diagnosed diabetes. About 60% of non-traumatic lower-limb amputations among people aged 20 years or older occur in people with diagnosed diabetes. Cost of Diabetes Updated March 6, 2013 $245 billion: Total costs of diagnosed diabetes in the United States in 2012 $176 billion for direct medical costs $69 billion in reduced productivity After adjusting for population age and sex differences, average medical expenditures among people with diagnosed diabetes were 2.3 times higher than what expenditures would be in the absence of diabetes. Read more about the results of our study "Economic Costs of Diabetes in the U.S. in 2012." For Additional Information See the infographic, A Snapshot: Diabetes in America. See our Fast Facts PDF. These statistics and additional information can be found in the National Diabetes Statistics Report, 2014, the most recent comprehensive assessment of the impact of diabetes in the United States, jointly produced by the CDC, NIH, ADA, and other organizations. Last Reviewed: May 18, 2015 Last Edited: February 1, 2016 Articles from Diabetes Forecast® magazine: what-is-facts, In this section Diabetes Basics Symptoms Diagnosis Type 1 Type 2 Gestational Statistics About Diabetes Infographics Genetics of Diabetes Myths Common Terms A Day in the Life of Diabetes Famous People Working to Stop Diabetes donate en -- Research Saves Lives - 2015-oct-donation-eng.html Research Saves Lives The next miracle in diabetes research begins with you. DONATE TODAY We Can Help - we-can-help.html Chat Online Chat Closed engagement en -- Savor the Flavor of Eating Right - 2016-mar-rfhl-eng.html Savor the Flavor of Eating Right Celebrate National Nutrition Month with our modern takes on favorite recipes. sticky en -- Clinical Care of the Diabetic Foot - 2016-jan-book-clinical-care-diabetic-foot-sticky.html More from diabetes.org Learn More: Let’s Make Every "Ahhh" Count! - 2016-feb-cigna.html Learn More Let’s Make Every "Ahhh" Count! Get a check-up and share Cigna’s badge to help our mission. Shopdiabetes.org: 150+ diabetes-friendly recipes! - 2016-mar-six-o-clock-scramble-book.html Shopdiabetes.org 150+ diabetes-friendly recipes! Save time with a streamlined system for tasty family dinners! Learn More: 2016 Diabetes Forecast Consumer Guide - l2016-mar-consumer-guide-foot.html Learn More 2016 Diabetes Forecast Consumer Guide Get all you need to know about diabetes tools in one spot. Advocacy: Do Your Part to Stop Diabetes! - 2016-feb-advocacy-petition.html Advocacy Do Your Part to Stop Diabetes! Sign the petition and ask Congress to stand up to diabetes. Living W/ Diabetes: Diabetes is Different for Men and Women - 2016-mar-womens-health-foot.html Living W/ Diabetes Diabetes is Different for Men and Women Learn more about how women are affected and what you can do. In My Community: Champion Wellness in Your Organization - 2016-mar-wellness-lives-here-alert.html In My Community Champion Wellness in Your Organization Download the free resources from our Alert Day e-toolkit. » « Connect With Us Register for diabetes news, research and food & fitness tips. Email: Sign Up Thank you for signing up Find Us On Facebook Twitter Pinterest Youtube Instagram Diabetes Stops Here Blog Online Community Site Menu Are You at Risk? Diagnosis Lower Your Risk Risk Test Alert Day Prediabetes My Health Advisor Tools to Know Your Risk Diabetes Basics Symptoms Type 1 Type 2 Gestational Myths Statistics Common Terms Genetics Living With Diabetes Recently Diagnosed Treatment & Care Complications Health Insurance For Parents & Kids Know Your Rights We Can Help Enroll in the Living WIth Type 2 Diabetes Program Food & Fitness Food Recipes Planning Meals What Can I Eat Weight Loss Fitness In My Community Calendar of Events Local Offices Volunteer Opportunities Signature Events Diabetes Camps Diabetes EXPOs Awareness Programs Wellness Lives Here Become a Member American Diabetes Month® American Diabetes Association Alert Day® Advocacy Take Action Advocacy Priorities News & Events The Cost of Diabetes Advocate Toolkit Call to Congress Research & Practice We Are Research Leaders We Support Your Doctor Student Resources Patient Access to Research Research Resources Practice Resources Ways to Give General Donation Monthly Donation Memorial Donation Honor Donation Planned Giving Other Ways to Give Do-It-Yourself Fundraising & Local Events Promotions that Give Back Donate Your Collectibles Donate Stocks About Us Who We Are Careers Contact Us Policies Corporate Support Newsroom Press Releases For Professionals En Español Online Community Walk Bike Shop Sign in American Diabetes Association 1701 North Beauregard Street Alexandria, VA 22311 1-800-DIABETES (800-342-2383)             Copyright 1995-2016. American Diabetes Association. All rights reserved. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy « American Diabetes Association Diabetes Forecast Stop Diabetes Step Out: Walk to Stop Diabetes Tour de Cure Living With Type 2 Diabetes Recipes for Healthy Living Diabetes Pro: Professional Resources Shop Diabetes » Close nonprofit software