Skip to content Check Your Symptoms Find A Doctor Sign In Sign UpSubscribe My ProfileWelcome My Tools My WebMD Pages My Account Sign Out Health A-Z Drugs & Supplements Living Healthy Family & Pregnancy News & Experts Common Conditions View All ADD/ADHD Allergies Arthritis Cancer Cold, Flu & Cough Depression Diabetes Eye Health Heart Disease Heartburn/GERD Pain Management Sexual Conditions Skin Problems Sleep Disorders Featured Topics See What Severe Psoriasis Looks Like 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Feeling Your Best When You Have MS Symptom Checker Health Concern On Your Mind? See what your medical symptoms could mean, and learn about possible conditions.Get Started Resources Second OpinionRead expert perspectives on popular health topics CommunitiesConnect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life Insurance GuideGet ready for changes to your health care coverage Physician DirectoryFind a doctor in your area Pain Coach Track your pain levels, triggers, and treatments. Set goals and get tips with our app. Download Find Information About: Drugs & Supplements Get information and reviews on prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, vitamins, and supplements. Search by name or medical condition. Find or Review a Drug Find or Review a Vitamin or Supplement Check for Drug Interactions Drugs Basics & Safety Commonly Abused Drugs What's Your Medication IQ? Taking Medications During Pregnancy Pill Identifier Having trouble identifying your pills? Enter the shape, color, or imprint of your prescription or OTC drug. Our pill identification tool will display pictures that you can compare to your pill.Get Started My Medicine Save your medicine, check interactions, sign up for FDA alerts, create family profiles and more.Get Started Drug News Vitamin B12 May Not Help Some Seniors Do Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? New Schizophrenia Drug Approved FDA: New, Stronger Warning for NSAIDs New Drug Approved for Heart Failure Mobile Drug Information App Drug, supplement, and vitamin information on the go. Download Featured Content Improve Your Concentration These Foods and Drinks Can Help Allergy App Fight allergies with daily forecasts, local alerts, and personalized tips. Download Living Healthy Centers View All Diet, Food & Fitness Diet & Weight Management Weight Loss & Obesity Food & Recipes Fitness & Exercise Beauty & Balance Healthy Beauty Health & Balance Sex & Relationships Oral Care Living Well Women's Health Men's Health Aging Well Teens Fit Kids Featured Topics Overcome Your Fear of Public Speaking New Clues Why Mosquitos Attack You Why Do You ... ACHOO!? Flash Fitness: Try the 7-Minute Workout Have Sensitive Teeth? See What to Do 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Featured Content What's That Rash? How to Treat Childhood Skin Problems Pregnancy App The big day is coming! Get organized and track baby's weekly development. Download Family and Pregnancy Centers Pregnancy Trying to Conceive First Trimester Second Trimester Third Trimester Parenting Newborn & Baby Children's Health Children's Vaccines Raising Fit Kids Pets Healthy Cats Healthy Dogs Featured Topics When Autism Grows Up Top Children's Hospitals Ranked Antidepressants Linked to Birth Defects When Are You Contagious? Which Birth Control Is Best for You? New Test May Help Spot Male Infertility News View All Why You Should Rethink That Drink Before Dinner New Clues Why Mosquitoes Find You Irresistible ArticleWomen: Too Much Sitting Ups Cancer Risk ArticlePopular Heartburn Meds Can Have Health Risks ArticleDo Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? WebMD Health Experts and Community Talk to health experts and other people like you in WebMD's Communities. It's a safe forum where you can create or participate in support groups and discussions about health topics that interest you. Second Opinion Read expert perspectives on popular health topics. Community Connect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life. Newsletters Sign up to receive WebMD's award-winning content delivered to your inbox.Sign Up When Your Diabetes Treatment Isn’t Working For You Diabetes: Tips for Blood Sugar Control and Insulin Foods That Help With both type 1 and type 2 diabetes, what you eat makes a difference. For instance, sugary or starchy carbs strongly affect your blood sugar (glucose). Go for a healthy mix of vegetables and fruits, whole grains, beans, fish, lean meats, and low-fat dairy. Ask your doctor or a registered dietitian for ideas on meals, snacks, and the best times to eat. Work Your Plan Use the advice your doctor or dietitian gave you to prevent your blood sugar from soaring after meals. Keep an eye on how much you eat and what’s on your plate. Check food labels to see how big (or small) a serving is. When you eat out, remember that many restaurants dish out far more food than a normal serving. Take some home. Get the Good Exercise Effect When you make it a habit to be active, it’s good for your blood sugar, especially with type 2 diabetes. Your body will respond better to insulin. Working out also prompts your muscles to use glucose. For instance, studies show that blood sugar levels improve when you build muscle through strength training.  Avoid Workout Mistakes While regular exercise can help control blood sugar, in some people it can make it drop. To keep your levels in check, your doctor may recommend you test your blood sugar before and after exercise. Take some fruit with you when you work out, or adjust your medications as needed. If your sugar dips, eat a snack and wait 15 minutes. Make sure it's above 100 before you get back to your activity. What You Need to Avoid Low Blood Sugar Stress can make your blood sugar level soar. Make time for hobbies you enjoy, connect with friends and family, and say no to things that overload your schedule. If you reach for a cigarette when you’re stressed, make it a priority to quit. Smoking makes diabetes complications more likely. Those include foot problems, nerve damage, and eye, heart, and kidney disease. Chill Out Stress can make your blood sugar level soar. Make time for hobbies you enjoy, connect with friends and family, and say no to things that overload your schedule. If you reach for a cigarette when you’re stressed, make it a priority to quit. Smoking makes diabetes complications more likely. Those include foot problems, nerve damage, and eye, heart, blood vessel, and kidney disease. 3 Surprising Things That Affect Blood Sugar Alcohol. If you drink, only do so if your blood sugar is stable. Illness. When you’re sick, test your blood sugar more often, stay hydrated, and try to eat regularly. Travel. Changes in time zones can disrupt your schedule. Test your blood sugar level before and after meals. Ask your doctor if you need to adjust your medications. Stick to Your Treatment Plan It's essential for your health. So follow your doctor’s advice about exercise and diet, and take your medication as directed. Type 1 diabetes is treated with insulin or an insulin pump, sometimes with other injectable medications. Type 2 is often treated with medications like insulin or drugs that help insulin work. Your doctor customizes your treatment plan with your age, body, and lifestyle in mind. Treating Diabetes With Insulin When you have the condition, your body often doesn't make enough insulin to control blood sugar. Doctors may prescribe insulin based on how long you've had diabetes and what type you have, your blood sugar level, your overall health, and other medicines you take. Medicines You May Also Need When you take insulin, you might also need other medications to improve your blood sugar. Pills or tablets for type 2 diabetes can increase insulin in the body or improve how well it works. Injectable drugs may slow down how fast your body absorbs glucose after you eat and curb your appetite. Tips for Injections Your doctor, a nurse, or another health professional will teach you how to give yourself insulin shots. Vary the spot on your body where you inject the insulin, so that you don’t build up scar tissue. For example, give yourself your shot on one side of your belly at breakfast, the other side at lunch, and in your outer thigh at dinner. Avoid your joints, groin, navel, and scars. What Type Do You Take? The types of insulin doctors prescribe for diabetes vary in how fast they work, when they peak, and how long they last. Rapid-acting, short-acting, and pre-mixed insulin are timed to meals. Long-acting and intermediate-acting work for up to 24 hours. Timing and Meals If you take shorter-acting and pre-mixed insulin, it must be working in your system when your body absorbs your food in order for you to avoid low blood sugar (hypoglycemia). Take short-acting insulin 30 to 60 minutes before meals. People typically take pre-mixed insulin 15 minutes before. Take rapid-acting insulin 5-15 minutes before or immediately after meals. Did You Take Too Much? If you've had too much insulin, or you haven't eaten and you’re on insulin, you can get low blood sugar. If you start to have symptoms -- feeling tired, weak, or shaky -- eat or drink something with sugar, such as juice. Or take glucose tablets. Tell your doctor what happened in case you need to adjust how much insulin you take. If You Need More Control If you have trouble managing your insulin and blood sugar, you may want to try an insulin pump. They come with a programmable dose calculator to easily control your insulin dosage and help keep your blood sugar level steady. No matter how you take your medication, you can always ask your doctor for help. Together you can find the right balance between diet, exercise, and medication. Time for an A1c Test? This test can track your average blood sugar level over the past 2-3 months. It’s a simple blood test you get in your doctor’s office. Experts recommend that you get it twice a year. Most people with diabetes aim for a goal around 7% or less. If your result is too high, your doctor may adjust your medication. Loading Next Slideshow: Sources IMAGES PROVIDED BY: 1)    Stockbyte / Getty 2)    Paul Indigo / Flickr 3)    Blend Images / Jetta Productions / Walter Hodges 4)    Steve Pomberg / WebMD 5)    Jesco Tscholitsch / Taxi 6)    Holly Kuper / Photolibrary 7)    Stephen Schauer / Riser 8)    BSIP; Sam Edwards; Kathy Quirk-Syvertsen ;  Image Source 9)    Thinkstock 10)  LWA / Photographers Choice 11)  David Hay Jones / Photo Researchers, Inc 12)  Design Pics / Don Hammond 13)  Leland Bobbe; Glow Images 14)  Siri Stafford / Lifesize 15)  Spencer Grant / Photo Researchers Inc 16)  David Hay Jones / Photo Researchers Inc SOURCES: American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists. American College of Physicians: Physician Information and Education Resource (PIER). American Diabetes Association. American Heart Association. Cleveland Clinic. Doyle, E.A. Diabetes Care, 2004. Joslin Diabetes Center. National Diabetes Education Program. National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases. New Zealand Ministry of Health. News release, FDA. PDR Network. Sanofi-aventis Group in the United States. The Hormone Society. Thomson Micromedex. Reviewed by Michael Dansinger, MD on May 12, 2015 This tool does not provide medical advice. See additional information THIS TOOL DOES NOT PROVIDE MEDICAL ADVICE. It is intended for general informational purposes only and does not address individual circumstances. It is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment and should not be relied on to make decisions about your health. Never ignore professional medical advice in seeking treatment because of something you have read on the WebMD Site. If you think you may have a medical emergency, immediately call your doctor or dial 911. © 2015 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD Slideshows View our slideshows to learn more about your health. Psoriasis 14 home remedies to try. Rheumatoid Arthritis Is it the source of your aches? Foods for Focus Eat these to help you stay on task. Multiple Sclerosis Warning signs to watch out for. Attention Killers What steals your concentration? Cancer Does THIS cause cancer? Related Content Article High Blood Sugar in the Morning? Article Injection Choices Article Ways to Stay Positive Article Give It Your Best Shot Further Reading Slideshow Blood Sugar Control Article Which Insulin Will You Choose? Article Be a Good Loser, Drop Pounds Safely Article What Is Combination Therapy? Article Give It Your Best Shot Article Injection Choices Health Solutions From Our Sponsors Exercise & OA Knee Pain RA and Pregnancy Lung Cancer Treatment Breast Cancer Advances IBS-C Symptoms? Facts About Skin Cancer Help with Painful Knees New Way to Take Insulin Diagnosed with Cancer? Melanoma Immunotherapy CML Treatment Plan Aortic Valve Stenosis? OA Doctor Answers Hodgkin Lymphoma Treatment Frequent Constipation? About About WebMD Contact Us Careers Newsletter Corporate WebMD Health Services Site Map Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility WebMD Network Medscape Medscape Reference MedicineNet eMedicineHealth RxList BootsWebMD First Aid WebMD Magazine WebMD Health Record WebMD Mobile Dictionary Our Apps WebMD Mobile WebMD App Pregnancy Baby Allergy Pain Coach WebMD Magazine Medscape TheHeart For Sponsors Advertise with Us Advertising Policy Sponsor Policy AdChoices ©2005-2016 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.