Skip to content Check Your Symptoms Find A Doctor Sign In Sign UpSubscribe My ProfileWelcome My Tools My WebMD Pages My Account Sign Out Health A-Z Drugs & Supplements Living Healthy Family & Pregnancy News & Experts Common Conditions View All ADD/ADHD Allergies Arthritis Cancer Cold, Flu & Cough Depression Diabetes Eye Health Heart Disease Heartburn/GERD Pain Management Sexual Conditions Skin Problems Sleep Disorders Featured Topics See What Severe Psoriasis Looks Like 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Feeling Your Best When You Have MS Symptom Checker Health Concern On Your Mind? See what your medical symptoms could mean, and learn about possible conditions.Get Started Resources Second OpinionRead expert perspectives on popular health topics CommunitiesConnect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life Insurance GuideGet ready for changes to your health care coverage Physician DirectoryFind a doctor in your area Pain Coach Track your pain levels, triggers, and treatments. Set goals and get tips with our app. Download Find Information About: Drugs & Supplements Get information and reviews on prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, vitamins, and supplements. Search by name or medical condition. Find or Review a Drug Find or Review a Vitamin or Supplement Check for Drug Interactions Drugs Basics & Safety Commonly Abused Drugs What's Your Medication IQ? Taking Medications During Pregnancy Pill Identifier Having trouble identifying your pills? Enter the shape, color, or imprint of your prescription or OTC drug. Our pill identification tool will display pictures that you can compare to your pill.Get Started My Medicine Save your medicine, check interactions, sign up for FDA alerts, create family profiles and more.Get Started Drug News Vitamin B12 May Not Help Some Seniors Do Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? New Schizophrenia Drug Approved FDA: New, Stronger Warning for NSAIDs New Drug Approved for Heart Failure Mobile Drug Information App Drug, supplement, and vitamin information on the go. Download Featured Content Improve Your Concentration These Foods and Drinks Can Help Allergy App Fight allergies with daily forecasts, local alerts, and personalized tips. Download Living Healthy Centers View All Diet, Food & Fitness Diet & Weight Management Weight Loss & Obesity Food & Recipes Fitness & Exercise Beauty & Balance Healthy Beauty Health & Balance Sex & Relationships Oral Care Living Well Women's Health Men's Health Aging Well Teens Fit Kids Featured Topics Overcome Your Fear of Public Speaking New Clues Why Mosquitos Attack You Why Do You ... ACHOO!? Flash Fitness: Try the 7-Minute Workout Have Sensitive Teeth? See What to Do 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Featured Content What's That Rash? How to Treat Childhood Skin Problems Pregnancy App The big day is coming! Get organized and track baby's weekly development. Download Family and Pregnancy Centers Pregnancy Trying to Conceive First Trimester Second Trimester Third Trimester Parenting Newborn & Baby Children's Health Children's Vaccines Raising Fit Kids Pets Healthy Cats Healthy Dogs Featured Topics When Autism Grows Up Top Children's Hospitals Ranked Antidepressants Linked to Birth Defects When Are You Contagious? Which Birth Control Is Best for You? New Test May Help Spot Male Infertility News View All Why You Should Rethink That Drink Before Dinner New Clues Why Mosquitoes Find You Irresistible ArticleWomen: Too Much Sitting Ups Cancer Risk ArticlePopular Heartburn Meds Can Have Health Risks ArticleDo Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? WebMD Health Experts and Community Talk to health experts and other people like you in WebMD's Communities. It's a safe forum where you can create or participate in support groups and discussions about health topics that interest you. Second Opinion Read expert perspectives on popular health topics. Community Connect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life. Newsletters Sign up to receive WebMD's award-winning content delivered to your inbox.Sign Up WebMD Home Diabetes Health Center Email a Friend Print Article Diabetes Trends: Diabetes Symptoms Diabetic Diet Gestational Diabetes Health Check: Type 2 Diabetes Prediabetes Insulin Pump Diabetes Health Center Tools & Resources Is Your Diabetes Under Control? 10-Minute Diabetes Tips Diabetes: How to Count Carbs Diabetes Diet Dos and Don'ts Diabetes Menu Plan 4 Every Day Tips for Diabetes Font Size A A A Diabetes and Eye Problems In this article Causes of Eye Problems in Those With Diabetes Tests for Eye Problems in Diabetes Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Prevention of Diabetic Retinopathy Call Your Doctor About Diabetes or Retinopathy If: Causes of Eye Problems in Those With Diabetes In people with diabetes, high blood sugar damages the walls of the small blood vessels in the eye, altering their structure and function. As part of this condition, called diabetic retinopathy, these vessels may thicken, leak, develop clots, close off, or grow balloon-like defects called microaneurysms. Frequently, fluid accumulates in the part of the retina used in tasks such as reading; this condition is called macular edema. In advanced cases, the retina is robbed of its blood supply and grows new, but defective, vessels -- a process called neovascularization. These fragile vessels can bleed, creating vision-impairing hemorrhages, scar tissue, and separation of the retina from the back of the eye (retinal detachment). The new vessels can also block fluid flow within the eye, producing glaucoma. Tests for Eye Problems in Diabetes It's important that anyone who has diabetes gets annual eye exams from an ophthalmologist so that retinopathy can be detected early. When you visit an ophthalmologist, he or she will question you about your medical history and vision and will ask you to read an eye chart. The doctor will then directly examine the retina using an instrument called an ophthalmoscope. Some of the features of diabetic retinopathy cannot be seen during a basic eye exam and require special exams. To get a better look at the inside of the eye, your doctor will use eye drops to dilate the pupils and will then view the retina with lenses and a special light called a slit lamp. A test called fluorescein angiography can reveal changes in the structure and function of the retinal blood vessels. For this test, the doctor injects a fluorescent yellow dye into one of your veins and then photographs your retina as the dye outlines the blood vessels. Your eye exam will likely also include a check for glaucoma and cataracts, both of which occur more frequently in people with diabetes and can cause vision problems. Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy If you have diabetes, treatment of retinopathy should involve both a medical doctor and an ophthalmologist. Your medical doctor can help you better control blood sugar and can treat other complications of diabetes that may worsen diabetic retinopathy, such as impaired kidney or heart function. Your ophthalmologist can directly treat retinopathy with a laser or a surgical procedure called vitrectomy, to prevent further vascular changes and preserve vision. Don't be surprised if your doctor recommends one of these treatments before you notice any vision problems: Before eye problems start is usually the best time for treatment. 1 | 2 | 3 Next Page > Continue reading below... Top Picks Garcinia Cambogia: Will It Lower My Blood Sugar? Images of Diabetic Retinopathy and Other Vision Problems Is Your Type 2 Diabetes Under Control? Dos and Don'ts: Diabetes and Alcohol Insulin: Questions for Your Doctor Best and Worst Foods for Diabetes Further Reading: Slideshow: Diabetic Retinopathy and Other Diabetes Eye Problems Slideshow: A Visual Guide to Type 1 Diabetes Diabetic Eye Disease Diabetic Macular Edema How Diabetes Causes Blindness-Topic Overview Protect Your Eyesight When You Have Diabetes Man Who Lost His Vision Now Helps Others See All Diabetes and the Eyes Topics Diabetes and the Eyes Home Medical Reference Features Slideshows & Images More From WebMD News Archive Diabetes Health Center General Diabetes Type 1 Diabetes Type 2 Diabetes Gestational Diabetes News Reference Slideshows Quizzes Videos Diabetes Guide 1 Overview & Facts 2 Symptoms & Causes 3 Diagnosis & Tests 4 Treatments 5 Living With 6 Complications Related to Diabetes Blood Glucose Tracker Eye Problems Insulin Living Healthy Metabolic Syndrome Oral Care Prediabetes More Related Topics Today on WebMD Type 2 Diabetes Symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and more. Muscle Moves for Diabetes 10 strength training exercises.   Avoiding Diabetes Complications 12 practical tips. Celebrities With Diabetes Stars living with type 1 or type 2.   Video Bariatric Surgery and Type 2 Diabetes Article Can Vinegar Treat Diabetes?   Tool Tips for Staying Healthy With Diabetes Video Benefits of Eating Low GI   Article Prediabetes: 7 Steps to Take Now Slideshow Type 2 Diabetes: What Is It?   Tool Track Carbs and Calories Slideshow What Your Feet Say About Your Health   WebMD Special Sections Managing Diabetes, Insulin, and High Blood Sugar Your Child and Type 1 Diabetes Type 2 Diabetes: Learn How New Treatments Can Help You Diabetes: Keeping Up With Your Active Life Control Blood Sugar: Diet, Exercise, and Insulin Tips Ready to Take Control of Your Diabetes? Diabetes and Your Skin Living with Diabetes Assessment Making Progress With Diabetes Diabetes: Keys to Better Daily Control Diabetes as You Age: Stay Active, Live Better Diabetes: Ready to Lower Your Blood Sugar? Health Solutions From Our Sponsors Exercise & OA Knee Pain RA and Pregnancy Lung Cancer Treatment Breast Cancer Advances IBS-C Symptoms? Facts About Skin Cancer Help with Painful Knees New Way to Take Insulin Diagnosed with Cancer? Melanoma Immunotherapy CML Treatment Plan Aortic Valve Stenosis? OA Doctor Answers Hodgkin Lymphoma Treatment Frequent Constipation? More From WebMD: Hemophilia Treatment|RA Basics|Psoriasis|MS Assessment|Hemophilia Questions|Anaphylaxis|ADHD in Children|Diabetes Diet|Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma |Breast Cancer|Toenail Fungus|Incontinence|COPD|Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials|Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis Find us on: URAC: Accredited Health Web Site AdChoices About WebMD Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Advertising Policy Accessibility Sponsor Policy Site Map Careers Contact Us Medscape Reference eMedicineHealth RxList Medscape MedicineNet BootsWebMD WebMD Corporate WebMD Health Services First Aid WebMD Magazine WebMD Health Record WebMD Mobile Newsletters Dictionary Physician Directory ©2005-2016 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.