Skip to content Check Your Symptoms Find A Doctor Sign In Sign UpSubscribe My ProfileWelcome My Tools My WebMD Pages My Account Sign Out Health A-Z Drugs & Supplements Living Healthy Family & Pregnancy News & Experts Common Conditions View All ADD/ADHD Allergies Arthritis Cancer Cold, Flu & Cough Depression Diabetes Eye Health Heart Disease Heartburn/GERD Pain Management Sexual Conditions Skin Problems Sleep Disorders Featured Topics See What Severe Psoriasis Looks Like 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Feeling Your Best When You Have MS Symptom Checker Health Concern On Your Mind? See what your medical symptoms could mean, and learn about possible conditions.Get Started Resources Second OpinionRead expert perspectives on popular health topics CommunitiesConnect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life Insurance GuideGet ready for changes to your health care coverage Physician DirectoryFind a doctor in your area Pain Coach Track your pain levels, triggers, and treatments. Set goals and get tips with our app. Download Find Information About: Drugs & Supplements Get information and reviews on prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, vitamins, and supplements. Search by name or medical condition. Find or Review a Drug Find or Review a Vitamin or Supplement Check for Drug Interactions Drugs Basics & Safety Commonly Abused Drugs What's Your Medication IQ? Taking Medications During Pregnancy Pill Identifier Having trouble identifying your pills? Enter the shape, color, or imprint of your prescription or OTC drug. Our pill identification tool will display pictures that you can compare to your pill.Get Started My Medicine Save your medicine, check interactions, sign up for FDA alerts, create family profiles and more.Get Started Drug News Vitamin B12 May Not Help Some Seniors Do Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? New Schizophrenia Drug Approved FDA: New, Stronger Warning for NSAIDs New Drug Approved for Heart Failure Mobile Drug Information App Drug, supplement, and vitamin information on the go. Download Featured Content Improve Your Concentration These Foods and Drinks Can Help Allergy App Fight allergies with daily forecasts, local alerts, and personalized tips. Download Living Healthy Centers View All Diet, Food & Fitness Diet & Weight Management Weight Loss & Obesity Food & Recipes Fitness & Exercise Beauty & Balance Healthy Beauty Health & Balance Sex & Relationships Oral Care Living Well Women's Health Men's Health Aging Well Teens Fit Kids Featured Topics Overcome Your Fear of Public Speaking New Clues Why Mosquitos Attack You Why Do You ... ACHOO!? Flash Fitness: Try the 7-Minute Workout Have Sensitive Teeth? See What to Do 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Featured Content What's That Rash? How to Treat Childhood Skin Problems Pregnancy App The big day is coming! Get organized and track baby's weekly development. Download Family and Pregnancy Centers Pregnancy Trying to Conceive First Trimester Second Trimester Third Trimester Parenting Newborn & Baby Children's Health Children's Vaccines Raising Fit Kids Pets Healthy Cats Healthy Dogs Featured Topics When Autism Grows Up Top Children's Hospitals Ranked Antidepressants Linked to Birth Defects When Are You Contagious? Which Birth Control Is Best for You? New Test May Help Spot Male Infertility News View All Why You Should Rethink That Drink Before Dinner New Clues Why Mosquitoes Find You Irresistible ArticleWomen: Too Much Sitting Ups Cancer Risk ArticlePopular Heartburn Meds Can Have Health Risks ArticleDo Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? WebMD Health Experts and Community Talk to health experts and other people like you in WebMD's Communities. It's a safe forum where you can create or participate in support groups and discussions about health topics that interest you. Second Opinion Read expert perspectives on popular health topics. Community Connect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life. Newsletters Sign up to receive WebMD's award-winning content delivered to your inbox.Sign Up WebMD Home Diabetes Health Center Diabetes RMQ Email a Friend Print Article Diabetes Trends: Diabetes Symptoms Diabetic Diet Gestational Diabetes Health Check: Type 2 Diabetes Prediabetes Insulin Pump Quiz: What Can You Eat If You Have Diabetes?   1 of   Current Score:   You can’t have desserts if you have diabetes. True False Previous Continue You can’t have desserts if you have diabetes. Your Answer: Correct Answer: If you have diabetes, don’t worry that you’ll never taste your favorite ice cream or pie again. You can still have desserts, but save them for special occasions and only have a small scoop or a thin slice. Sugar is a type of carbohydrate, and carbohydrates make your blood sugar go up more and faster than protein or fat. If you have diabetes, you’ll need to track your carbs. If you crave something sweet, have a piece of fruit. Previous Continue When you have diabetes, snacking is a good idea. True False Previous Continue When you have diabetes, snacking is a good idea. Your Answer: Correct Answer: Knowing when to eat and what to snack on can help keep your blood sugar at healthy levels. Have snacks when you are hungry or if your blood sugar gets low between meals. The best snacks combine carbohydrates, protein and fat to satisfy your hunger. Other good choices include a piece of fruit, half a turkey sandwich on whole wheat bread or a few cups of low-fat microwave popcorn. Previous Continue slide image You should eat a lot of this if you have diabetes: Natural sugars Added sugars Fiber Previous Continue slide image You should eat a lot of this if you have diabetes: Your Answer: Correct Answer: Fiber is a carbohydrate like sugars and starches. But because your body doesn’t digest fiber, it doesn’t affect your blood sugar. Foods high in fiber also help make you feel full. Get your fiber by eating plenty of fruits, vegetables, beans, and whole-grain foods like 100% whole wheat bread and whole oats. And be sure to keep the skin on fruits and veggies; that’s where most of the fiber is. One cup of raw spinach has about 5 grams of fiber. One slice of whole wheat bread has 3. All women need at least 25 grams of fiber a day; men should get at least 38 grams a day. Previous Continue slide image It’s OK to skip a meal so you can eat a really big meal later. True False Previous Continue slide image It’s OK to skip a meal so you can eat a really big meal later. Your Answer: Correct Answer: If you have diabetes, it’s important that you eat regularly to keep your blood sugar levels steady. If you miss a meal, your blood sugar level might drop too low and you might feel shaky, nauseous, or dizzy. Your blood sugar can also spike after a big meal. Spacing out your meals -- and how many carbohydrates you eat -- will make your diabetes easier to control. During the day,try to eat meals every four to five hours and have snacks in-between. Previous Continue slide image Besides carbs, you should watch your: Calcium Salt Vitamin D Previous Continue slide image Besides carbs, you should watch your: Your Answer: Correct Answer: People with diabetes have a bigger risk of having high blood pressure, which can cause heart disease. Too much salt can make your blood pressure high, and most people get way more salt than they need. To cut down on salt, eat fewer canned and processed foods. Use herbs and spices to flavor your food. If you want a snack, choose a piece of fruit or some vegetables instead of salty chips or pretzels. Limit your salt intake to 2,300 mg a day at most. That's less than 1 teaspoon, but salt adds up quickly, even if you don't sprinkle it on your meal. Previous Continue slide image If you want to eat a potato, choose a: White potato Sweet potato Either Previous Continue slide image If you want to eat a potato, choose a: Your Answer: Correct Answer: People with diabetes don’t need to give up carbs, but they do need to pick healthy carbs over unhealthy ones like white bread and pastries. Both white and sweet potatoes are good sources of vitamins, potassium, and fiber. But sweet potatoes have an advantage: They don’t raise blood sugar as much as white potatoes . Previous Continue slide image You can eat as much sugar-free food as you want. True False Previous Continue slide image You can eat as much sugar-free food as you want. Your Answer: Correct Answer: Sugar-free isn’t the same as carbohydrate-free or calorie free. While some sugar substitutes don’t have carbohydrates, many do. And some sugar-free food can affect your blood sugar as much as foods with sugar. How can you tell? Check the food label to see how many grams of carbohydrate are in each serving. Foods made with “sugar alcohols” like sorbitol are high in carbohydrates and can give you stomach aches or diarrhea if you eat a lot of them. Previous Continue slide image What should you eat if your blood sugar is high? Your regular meal Nothing Only salad Previous Continue slide image What should you eat if your blood sugar is high? Your Answer: Correct Answer: If you feel OK but your blood sugar is higher than normal, eat your regular meals and take your medicines at the usual times. Try drinking several glasses of water and moving around more. Check and record your blood sugar every four hours until it is back to normal. Call your doctor if you are concerned about it or have unusual symptoms. Also call if your blood sugar keeps going up. Previous Continue Your Score:     You correctly answered   out of   questions. Your Score:&nbsp;    You correctly answered   out of   questions. The results are in! You know a lot about diabetes and food. Great job! You know a good bit about eating with diabetes. Well done! Not bad, but you could do better. Study up about diabetes and try the quiz again. Retake Quiz Print My Results Learn More: Slideshow: Best and Worst Meals for Diabetes-Savvy Dining Slideshow: 20 Reasons for Blood Sugar Swings Slideshow: Essential Tips to Manage Diabetes Reviewed by Michael Dansinger, MD on September 04, 2015 Sources: IMAGE PROVIDED BY: Brand X Pictures SOURCES: American Association of Diabetes Educators: “Healthy Eating.” American College of Cardiology: “Diabetes: Tips for Healthy Snacks.” American Diabetes Association: “Grains and starchy vegetables,” “Is it true that sweet potatoes are better than white potatoes because they have less “bad” carbohydrates?” “My Food Advisor: About Our Meal Plans,” "Non-Starchy Vegetables," “Sugar and Desserts,” “What If I Skip A Meal?” American Heart Association: "Shaking the Salt Habit." Cleveland Clinic: “Diabetes and the Foods You Eat.” Diabetes Forecast: "What Is a Good Evening Snack?" Joslin Diabetes Center: “Can I Eat As Many Sugar-Free Foods As I Want?” “How Does Fiber Affect Blood Glucose Levels?” “Ketone testing: What You Need to Know.” Vermont Department of Health: “Learning to Live Well with Diabetes.” This tool does not provide medical advice. See additional information: THIS TOOL DOES NOT PROVIDE MEDICAL ADVICE.  It is intended for general informational purposes only and does not address individual circumstances. It is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment and should not be relied on to make decisions about your health. Never ignore professional medical advice in seeking treatment because of something you have read on the WebMD Site. If you think you may have a medical emergency, immediately call your doctor or dial 911. © 2015 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. Today on WebMD Type 2 Diabetes Symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and more. Muscle Moves for Diabetes 10 strength training exercises.   Avoiding Diabetes Complications 12 practical tips. Celebrities With Diabetes Stars living with type 1 or type 2.   Video Bariatric Surgery and Type 2 Diabetes Article Can Vinegar Treat Diabetes?   Tool Tips for Staying Healthy With Diabetes Video Benefits of Eating Low GI   Article Prediabetes: 7 Steps to Take Now Slideshow Type 2 Diabetes: What Is It?   Tool Track Carbs and Calories Slideshow What Your Feet Say About Your Health   WebMD Special Sections Managing Diabetes, Insulin, and High Blood Sugar Your Child and Type 1 Diabetes Type 2 Diabetes: Learn How New Treatments Can Help You Diabetes: Keeping Up With Your Active Life Control Blood Sugar: Diet, Exercise, and Insulin Tips Ready to Take Control of Your Diabetes? Diabetes and Your Skin Living with Diabetes Assessment Making Progress With Diabetes Diabetes: Keys to Better Daily Control Diabetes as You Age: Stay Active, Live Better Diabetes: Ready to Lower Your Blood Sugar? Health Solutions From Our Sponsors Exercise & OA Knee Pain RA and Pregnancy Lung Cancer Treatment Breast Cancer Advances IBS-C Symptoms? Facts About Skin Cancer Help with Painful Knees New Way to Take Insulin Diagnosed with Cancer? Melanoma Immunotherapy CML Treatment Plan Aortic Valve Stenosis? OA Doctor Answers Hodgkin Lymphoma Treatment Frequent Constipation? More From WebMD: Hemophilia Treatment|RA Basics|Psoriasis|MS Assessment|Hemophilia Questions|Anaphylaxis|ADHD in Children|Diabetes Diet|Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma |Breast Cancer|Toenail Fungus|Incontinence|COPD|Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials|Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis Find us on: URAC: Accredited Health Web Site AdChoices About WebMD Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Advertising Policy Accessibility Sponsor Policy Site Map Careers Contact Us Medscape Reference eMedicineHealth RxList Medscape MedicineNet BootsWebMD WebMD Corporate WebMD Health Services First Aid WebMD Magazine WebMD Health Record WebMD Mobile Newsletters Dictionary Physician Directory ©2005-2016 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.