Type 2 Diabetes Learn the Basics Assess Your Symptoms Find Treatments Manage Glucose Eat Better Get Support Home Treating With Insulin Type 2 Diabetes - Living Healthier Topics & Tools Health Topics See all topics Acid Reflux ADHD Allergies Alzheimer's & Dementia Bipolar Disorder Cancer Chronic Pain Cold & Flu COPD Crohn's Disease Depression Fibromyalgia Health Insurance Exchanges Heart Disease High Cholesterol HIV Hypertension IBS Menopause Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Osteoarthritis Pregnancy Psoriasis Rheumatoid Arthritis Skin Disorders and Care STDs Type 2 Diabetes Health Tools Symptom Checker BodyMaps Clinical Trials Pill Identifier Opinion2 Health News Newsletter Sign-Up Diabetes Mine X Type 2 Diabetes Learn the Basics Assess Your Symptoms Find Treatments Manage Glucose Eat Better Get Support Home Treating With Insulin Type 2 Diabetes - Living Healthier Topics & Tools  Health Topics See all topics Acid Reflux ADHD Allergies Alzheimer's & Dementia Bipolar Disorder Cancer Chronic Pain Cold & Flu COPD Crohn's Disease Depression Fibromyalgia Health Insurance Exchanges Heart Disease High Cholesterol HIV Hypertension IBS Menopause Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Osteoarthritis Pregnancy Psoriasis Rheumatoid Arthritis Skin Disorders and Care STDs Type 2 Diabetes  Health Tools Symptom Checker BodyMaps Clinical Trials Pill Identifier Opinion2 Health News Newsletter Sign-Up Diabetes Mine Subscribe Advertisement   Healthline → Type 2 Diabetes → Eat Better → Reading Food Labels Diabetes Nutrition Guide: Reading Food Labels Written by Dana Sullivan Medically Reviewed by Email Print Share Email this page Your Name: Your Email: Recipient's Email: Send Email addresses will not be shared with 3rd parties. See privacy policy Thank you. Your message has been sent. OK We're sorry, an error occurred. We are unable to collect your feedback at this time. However, your feedback is important to us. Please try again later. Close Food labels can help you keep track of basic nutrition information—at least for prepared foods and for many of the ingredients you use when you cook at home. Just remember that the numbers on a food label—for fat, carbohydrates, and so on—are for each serving (not the entire container). Check the number of servings per container, too, to be sure you know what you’re eating. Total Carbohydrates For a person with diabetes, one of the most important numbers on a food label is the “total carbohydrates” number. Your healthcare provider has probably recommended a certain number of carbohydrates to eat at each meal (and for between-meal snacks) to manage post-meal blood sugar spikes. The total carbohydrates number found on food labels includes sugar, complex carbohydrates, and fiber. If you are not sure much to eat, be sure to talk to your dietitian or healthcare provider. A general rule of thumb from The American Diabetes Association is between 45 and 60 grams of carbohydrates per meal . While sugar is counted as part of the food’s total carbohydrates, it’s a good idea to try to choose foods that have less added sugar. Foods with added sugar are generally less nutritious than foods that have lower amounts of added sugar. However, remember that it is the total carbohydrates per serving, not the sugar per serving, that counts in your meal carbohydrate totals. Fiber Fiber helps improve blood sugar control by slowing down the rate at which food leaves your stomach, thereby delaying the rise in blood sugar after meals. So getting enough fiber in a day is helpful. The American Dietetic Association recommends that women—whether diabetic or not—eat 25 grams of fiber a day and that men eat 38 grams up to age 50. After age 50, women need 21 grams per day and men need 30. Look for foods that are higher in fiber to help you reach your fiber goal. Calories People who are trying to lose or maintain weight often find it helpful to keep track of how many calories they consume. When shopping, comparing calories and serving sizes of similar products might help you decide which one to purchase. To find out how many calories you need every day, based on your age and activity level, view this National Institutes of Health chart. Fat A food label will tell you how much total fat the food contains. Saturated fats and trans fats are listed under the food’s total fat content; limiting saturated fat and avoiding trans fats is good for heart health. The American Diabetes Association recommends that people with diabetes eat less than 15 grams of saturated fat a day. Sodium Sodium doesn’t affect blood glucose levels, but it may affect blood pressure. And since as many as two out of three people with diabetes also have high blood pressure, your healthcare provider may recommend that you limit your sodium intake. For people with high blood pressure and diabetes, the American Diabetes Association recommends limiting your sodium intake to 1,500 milligrams mg or less per day. For foods to be described as “low sodium,” on their labels, they must have less than 140 mg of sodium per serving. Ingredients Reading the ingredients list on foods helps you avoid ingredients that you would rather avoid. The most obvious ingredients to avoid are trans fats, listed as hydrogenated oils on labels; added saturated fat, such as lard; coconut oil; and palm or palm kernel oil. Also, ingredients are listed in order of quantity, from most to least—so if sugar (for example) is one of the top ingredients, the food may not be the most nutritious choice. 1 Article Resources Article resources Understanding Carbohydrates (n.d.). American Diabetes Association. Retrieved April 15, 2014, from http://www.diabetes.org/food-and-fitness/food/what-can-i-eat/understanding-carbohydrates/sugar-and-desserts.html Less Sodium, Just As Much Flavor. (n.d.). American Diabetes Association. Retrieved April 15, 2014, from http://www.diabetes.org/mfa-recipes/tips/2013-05/less-sodium-just-as-much-2013-5.html Fat and Diabetes. (n.d.). American Diabetes Association. Retrieved January 18, 2012, from http://www.diabetes.org/food-and-fitness/food/what-can-i-eat/making-healthy-food-choices/fats-and-diabetes.html High Blood Pressure (Hypertension). (n.d.). American Diabetes Association. Retrieved January 18, 2012, from http://www.diabetes.org/living-with-diabetes/complications/high-blood-pressure-hypertension.html Taking a Closer Look At Labels. (n.d.). American Diabetes Association. Retrieved January 18, 2012, from http://www.diabetes.org/food-and-fitness/food/what-can-i-eat/food-tips/taking-a-closer-look-at-labels.html Tools and Calculators. (n.d.). American Cancer Society. Retrieved January 18, 2012, from http://www.cancer.org/Healthy/ToolsandCalculators/index Was this article helpful?Yes No Give Us Feedback How helpful was it? We're sorry to hear that. How can we improve it? ✖ Please select one of the following: This article changed my life! This article is helpful I have a suggestion / correction I have a medical question This article didn't help me Have further feedback for us? Let us know below! Please note that we are unable to respond back directly to your questions or provide medical advice. We won't share your email address. Privacy policy Your name ✖ Please enter your name Your email  ✖ Please enter your email Your feedback 0 Sign me up for Healthline's Newsletter Send Message Please note that we are unable to respond back directly to your questions or provide medical advice. We won't share your email address. Privacy policy In partnership with Avoid the doctor's office. Access top doctors in the comfort of your own home. See and speak with a doctor over live, high-quality video.Your first visit is on us. Use code SEE4FREE Start my FREE visit We're sorry, an error occurred. We are unable to collect your feedback at this time. However, your feedback is important to us. Please try again later. Healthline Thank you for your feedback. Your health and well being are important to us. We're sorry you couldn't find the information you were looking for this time, but your comments will help us identify gaps and improve our content. We applaud you for taking an active role in your health! To your health, The Healthline Team Email Print Share More on Healthline Video: Type 2 Diabetes Read More » All about the Hemoglobin A1C Test Read More » Type 2 Myths and Misconceptions Read More » Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Close Advertisement As the fastest growing consumer health information site — with over 40 million monthly visitors — Healthline’s mission is to be your most trusted ally in your pursuit of health and well-being. You can depend on us to provide expert content along with genuine caring. Both of which will support, guide, and inspire you toward the best possible health outcomes for you and your family. Sign Up for Thank you! Health Tips Get the latest health & wellness advice delivered straight to your inbox, and check out our other newsletters. X Sign Up Your privacy is important to us Find us on: Facebook Twitter Google Plus Pinterest Site Map Health Topics Health News Diabetes Mine Opinion2 About Healthline About Us Advertising & Sponsorship Policy Privacy Policy Get in Touch Careers Advertise With Us Contact Newsletter Sign-Up This website is certified by Health On The Net. Click here to verify Copyright © 2005 - 2016 Healthline Media. All rights reserved for Healthline. Healthline content is strictly informational and should not be considered medical advice. See a certified medical professional for diagnosis and treatment recommendations. Terms of Use | Privacy Policy