Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search Request an Appointment Find a Doctor Find a Job Give Now Log in to Patient Account Translated Content Espanol Portuguese Arabic Mandarin Twitter Facebook Google YouTube Pinterest Menu Search All Mayo Clinic Topics Patient Care & Health Info Healthy Lifestyle Symptoms A-Z Diseases & Conditions A-Z Tests & Procedures A-Z Drugs & Supplements A-Z Appointments Patient & Visitor Guide Patient Online Services Quality CareFind out why Mayo Clinic is the right place for your health care. Make an appointment. Departments & Centers Doctors & Medical Staff Medical Departments & Centers Research Centers & Programs About Mayo Clinic Contact Us Meet the StaffFind a directory of doctors and departments at all Mayo Clinic campuses. Visit now. Research Explore Research Labs Find Clinical Trials Research Faculty Postdoctoral Fellowships Discovery's Edge Magazine Search Publications Training Grant Positions Research and Clinical TrialsSee how Mayo Clinic research and clinical trials advance the science of medicine and improve patient care. Explore now. Education Mayo Graduate School Mayo Medical School Mayo School of Continuous Professional Development Mayo School of Graduate Medical Education Mayo School of Health Sciences Alumni Center Visit Our SchoolsEducators at Mayo Clinic train tomorrow’s leaders to deliver compassionate, high-value, safe patient care. Choose a degree. For Medical Professionals Provider Relations Online Services for Referring Physicians Video Center Publications Continuing Medical Education Mayo Medical Laboratories Professional ServicesExplore Mayo Clinic’s many resources and see jobs available for medical professionals. Get updates. Products & Services Healthy Living Program Mayo Clinic Membership Books and more ... Mayo Clinic Health Letter Medical Products Population Health and Wellness Programs Health Plan Administration Medical Laboratory Services Continuing Education for Medical Professionals Giving to Mayo Clinic Give Now Your Impact Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Give to Mayo ClinicHelp set a new world standard in care for people everywhere. Give now. Diseases and Conditions Diabetes Print Sections Basics Definition Symptoms Causes Risk factors Complications Preparing for your appointment Tests and diagnosis Treatments and drugs Lifestyle and home remedies Alternative medicine Coping and support Prevention Care at Mayo Clinic Why choose Mayo Clinic Appointments Clinical trials Research In-Depth Expert Answers Expert Blog Multimedia Resources News From Mayo Clinic Free E-newsletter Subscribe to Housecall Our general interest e-newsletter keeps you up to date on a wide variety of health topics. Sign up now Diabetes diet: Create your healthy-eating plan Your diabetes diet is simply a healthy-eating plan that will help you control your blood sugar. Here's help getting started, from meal planning to exchange lists and counting carbohydrates.By Mayo Clinic Staff Definition Controlling Your Diabetes Subscribe to our Controlling Your Diabetes e-newsletter to stay up to date on diabetes topics. Sign up now A diabetes diet — medically known as medical nutrition therapy (MNT) for diabetes — simply translates into eating a variety of nutritious foods in moderate amounts and sticking to regular mealtimes. Rather than a restrictive diet, a diabetes diet or MNT is a healthy-eating plan that's naturally rich in nutrients and low in fat and calories, with an emphasis on fruits, vegetables and whole grains. In fact, a diabetes diet is the best eating plan for most everyone. Purpose If you have diabetes or prediabetes, your doctor will likely recommend that you see a dietitian to guide you on dietary changes and MNT that can help you control your blood sugar (glucose) level and manage your weight. When you eat excess calories and fat, your body responds by creating an undesirable rise in blood glucose. If blood glucose isn't kept in check, it can lead to serious problems, such as a dangerously high blood glucose level (hyperglycemia) and chronic complications, such as nerve, kidney and heart damage. Making healthy food choices and tracking your eating habits can help you manage your blood glucose level and keep it within a safe range. For most people with type 2 diabetes, weight loss also can make it easier to control blood glucose and offers a host of other health benefits. If you need to lose weight, MNT provides a well-organized, nutritious way to reach your goal safely. Diet details A registered dietitian can help you put together a diet based on your health goals, tastes and lifestyle and can provide valuable information on how to change your eating habits. Recommended foods Make your calories count with these nutritious foods: Healthy carbohydrates. During digestion, sugars (simple carbohydrates) and starches (complex carbohydrates) break down into blood glucose. Focus on the healthiest carbohydrates, such as fruits, vegetables, whole grains, legumes (beans, peas and lentils) and low-fat dairy products. Fiber-rich foods. Dietary fiber includes all parts of plant foods that your body can't digest or absorb. Fiber can decrease the risk of heart disease and help control blood sugar levels. Foods high in fiber include vegetables, fruits, nuts, legumes (beans, peas and lentils), whole-wheat flour and wheat bran. Heart-healthy fish. Eat heart-healthy fish at least twice a week. Fish can be a good alternative to high-fat meats. For example, cod, tuna and halibut have less total fat, saturated fat and cholesterol than do meat and poultry. Fish such as salmon, mackerel, tuna, sardines and bluefish are rich in omega-3 fatty acids, which promote heart health by lowering blood fats called triglycerides. However, avoid fried fish and fish with high levels of mercury, such as tilefish, swordfish and king mackerel. 'Good' fats. Foods containing monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats — such as avocados, almonds, pecans, walnuts, olives, and canola, olive and peanut oils — can help lower your cholesterol levels. Eat them sparingly, however, as all fats are high in calories. Foods to avoid Diabetes increases your risk of heart disease and stroke by accelerating the development of clogged and hardened arteries. Foods containing the following can work against your goal of a heart-healthy diet. Saturated fats. High-fat dairy products and animal proteins such as beef, hot dogs, sausage and bacon contain saturated fats. Get no more than 7 percent of your daily calories from saturated fat. Trans fats. These types of fats are found in processed snacks, baked goods, shortening and stick margarines and should be avoided completely. Cholesterol. Sources of cholesterol include high-fat dairy products and high-fat animal proteins, egg yolks, shellfish, liver, and other organ meats. Aim for no more than 300 milligrams (mg) of cholesterol a day. Sodium. Aim for less than 2,300 mg of sodium a day. Putting it all together: Creating a plan There are a few different approaches to creating a diabetes diet that keeps your blood glucose level within a normal range. With a dietitian's help, you may find one or a combination of methods that works for you. Counting carbohydrates. Because carbohydrates break down into glucose, they have the greatest impact on your blood glucose level. It's important to make sure your timing and amount of carbohydrates are the same each day, especially if you take diabetes medications or insulin. Otherwise, your blood glucose level may fluctuate more. A dietitian can teach you how to measure food portions and become an educated reader of food labels, paying special attention to serving size and carbohydrate content. If you're taking insulin, he or she can teach you how to count the amount of carbohydrates in each meal or snack and adjust your insulin dose accordingly. The food lists system. A dietitian may recommend using food lists to help you plan meals and snacks. The food lists are organized by categories, such as carbohydrates, protein sources and fats. One serving in a category is called a "choice." A food choice has about the same amount of carbohydrates, protein, fat and calories — and the same effect on your blood glucose — as a serving of every other food in that same category. So, for example, you could choose to eat half of a large ear of corn or 1/3 cup of cooked pasta for one starch choice. Glycemic index. Some people who have diabetes use the glycemic index to select foods, especially carbohydrates. Foods with a high glycemic index are associated with greater increases in blood sugar than are foods with a low glycemic index. Complex carbohydrates that are high in fiber — such as whole-grain rice, bread or cereals — have a lower glycemic index than do simple carbohydrates — white bread or white rice, for example — and usually are preferred to highly processed foods. But low-index foods aren't necessarily always healthier, as foods that are high in fat tend to have lower glycemic index values than do some healthier options. A sample menu Your daily meal plan should take into account your size as well as your physical activity level. The following menu is tailored for someone who needs 1,200 to 1,600 calories a day. Breakfast. Whole-wheat pancakes or waffles, one piece of fruit or 3/4 cup of berries, 6 ounces of nonfat vanilla yogurt. Lunch. Cheese and veggie pita, medium apple with 2 tablespoons of almond butter. Dinner. Beef stroganoff; 1/2 cup carrots; side salad with 1 1/2 cups spinach, 1/2 of a tomato, 1/4 cup chopped bell pepper, 2 teaspoons olive oil, 1 1/2 teaspoons red wine vinegar. Snacks. Two unsalted rice cakes topped with 1 ounce of light spreadable cheese or one orange with 1/2 cup 1 percent low-fat cottage cheese. Next Share Tweet Feb. 18, 2015 References Diabetes meal plans and a healthy diet. American Diabetes Association. http://www.diabetes.org/food-and-fitness/food/planning-meals/diabetes-meal-plans-and-a-healthy-diet.html. Accessed Jan. 26, 2013. Am I at risk for type 2 diabetes? Taking steps to lower your risk of getting diabetes. National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse. http://diabetes.niddk.nih.gov/dm/pubs/riskfortype2/index.aspx. Accessed Jan. 26, 2013. Carbohydrates. American Diabetes Association. http://www.diabetes.org/food-and-fitness/food/what-can-i-eat/carbohydrates.html. Accessed Jan. 26, 2013. Eating fish for heart health. American Diabetes Association. http://www.heart.org/HEARTORG/Conditions/More/MyHeartandStrokeNews/Eating-Fish-for-Heart-Health_UCM_440433_Article.jsp. Accessed Jan. 26, 2013. Daly A, et al. Choose Your Foods: Exchange Lists for Diabetes. Alexandria, Va.: American Diabetes Association and American Dietetic Association; 2008. Nutrition recommendations and interventions for diabetes — A position statement of the American Diabetes Association. Diabetes Care. 2008;31(suppl):S61. Colditz GA. Healthy diet in adults. http://www.uptodate.com/home. Accessed Jan. 26, 2013. Be sodium savvy. American Diabetes Association. http://www.diabetes.org/food-and-fitness/food/what-can-i-eat/be-sodium-savvy.html. Accessed Jan. 26, 2013. New year, fresh start. American Diabetes Association. http://www.diabetes.org/mfa-recipes/meal-plans/. Accessed Jan. 26, 2013. Food lists for diabetes get an update. Diabetes Forecast. http://www.diabetesforecast.org/2014/06-jun/food-lists-for-diabetes-get.html. Accessed Feb. 6, 2015. See more In-depth Products and Services Mayo Clinic Membership DVD: Mayo Clinic Wellness Solutions for Diabetes Book: The Essential Diabetes Book Book: The Mayo Clinic Diabetes Diet See also Medication-free hypertension control After a flood, are food and medicines safe to use? Air pollution and exercise Alcohol: Does it affect blood pressure? Alpha blockers Amputation and diabetes Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors Angiotensin II receptor blockers Anxiety: A cause of high blood pressure? Artificial sweeteners: Any effect on blood sugar? Avandia and Actos safety Beta blockers Beta blockers: Do they cause weight gain? Beta blockers: How do they affect exercise? Blood glucose meters Blood glucose monitors Blood pressure: Can it be higher in one arm? Blood pressure chart Blood pressure cuff: Does size matter? Blood pressure: Does it have a daily pattern? Blood pressure: Is it affected by cold weather? Blood pressure medication: Still necessary if I lose weight? Blood pressure medications: Can they raise my triglycerides? Blood pressure readings: Why higher at home? Blood pressure tip: Get more potassium Blood pressure tip: Get off the couch Blood pressure tip: Know alcohol limits Blood pressure tip: Stress out no more Blood pressure tip: Watch the caffeine Blood pressure tip: Watch your weight Blood sugar testing: Why, when and how Bone and joint problems associated with diabetes Caffeine and hypertension Calcium channel blockers Calcium supplements: Do they interfere with blood pressure drugs? Can whole-grain foods lower blood pressure? Central-acting agents Choosing blood pressure medications Diabetes Diabetes and dental care Diabetes and depression: Coping with the two conditions Diabetes and exercise: When to monitor your blood sugar Diabetes and Heat Diabetes and menopause Diabetes and electric blankets 10 ways to avoid diabetes complications Diabetes diet: Should I avoid sweet fruits? Diabetes foods: Is honey a good substitute for sugar? Diabetes and liver Diabetes management: Does aspirin therapy prevent heart problems? Diabetes management: How lifestyle, daily routine affect blood sugar Diabetes: Eating out Diabetes nutrition: sweets Diabetes symptoms Diabetes treatment: Can cinnamon lower blood sugar? Using insulin Diabetic Gastroparesis Diuretics Diuretics: A cause of low potassium? Do you know your blood pressure? Erectile dysfunction and diabetes High blood pressure and exercise Exercise and chronic disease Fatigue Free blood pressure machines: Are they accurate? Frequent urination Fruit: To peel or not to peel? Home blood pressure monitoring Glucose tolerance test Glycemic index: A helpful tool for diabetes? Healthy eating: One step at a time Healthy heart for life: Avoiding heart disease High blood pressure (hypertension) High blood pressure and cold remedies: Which are safe? High blood pressure and sex High blood pressure: Can you prevent it? High blood pressure dangers Hypertensive crisis: What are the symptoms? Insulin and weight gain Insulin therapy options Intensive insulin therapy Isolated systolic hypertension: A health concern? L-arginine: Does it lower blood pressure? Late-night eating: OK if you have diabetes? Low-phosphorus diet: Best for kidney disease? Diabetes and carbs Medications and supplements that can raise your blood pressure Menopause and high blood pressure: What's the connection? Pancreas transplant Pulse pressure: An indicator of heart health? Reactive hypoglycemia: What can I do? Reading food labels Resperate: Can it help reduce blood pressure? Sleep deprivation: A cause of high blood pressure? Blood sugar testing Sodium nitrate in meat: Heart disease risk factor? Sodium: Smarten up Stress and high blood pressure The dawn phenomenon: What can you do? Unexplained weight loss Vasodilators Vegetarian diet: Can it help me control my diabetes? How diabetes affects your blood sugar How to measure blood pressure using a manual monitor How to measure blood pressure using an automatic monitor What is blood pressure? Weight Loss Surgery Options Weightlifting: Bad for your blood pressure? What's your high blood pressure risk? White coat hypertension Wrist blood pressure monitors: Are they accurate?Show moreShow less Advertisement Mayo Clinic is a not-for-profit organization. Proceeds from website advertising help support our mission. Mayo Clinic does not endorse non-Mayo products and services. Advertising & Sponsorship Policy Opportunities Mayo Clinic Store Check out these best-sellers and special offers on books and newsletters from Mayo Clinic. The Mayo Clinic Diet Online — Eat well. Enjoy life. Lose weight. Control fibromyalgia with a three-step action plan The Mayo Clinic Handbook for Happiness Mayo Clinic on Healthy Aging Mayo Clinic Diabetes Diet Book & Journal Combo Other Topics in Patient Care & Health Info Healthy Lifestyle Symptoms A-Z Diseases and Conditions A-Z Tests and Procedures A-Z Drugs and Supplements A-Z Appointments Patient and Visitor Guide Patient Online Services . ART-20044295 Home Diseases and Conditions Diabetes In-Depth Diabetes diet Create your healthy eating plan Mayo Clinic Footer Request Appointment Give Now Contact Us About Mayo Clinic Employees Site Map About This Site Legal Conditions and Terms Any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy linked below. Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Notice of Privacy Practices Reprint Permissions A single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only. "Mayo," "Mayo Clinic," "MayoClinic.org," "Mayo Clinic Healthy Living," and the triple-shield Mayo Clinic logo are trademarks of Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research. HON We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here. © 1998-2016 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research. All rights reserved.