Type 2 Diabetes Learn the Basics Assess Your Symptoms Find Treatments Manage Glucose Eat Better Get Support Home Treating With Insulin Type 2 Diabetes - Living Healthier Topics & Tools Health Topics See all topics Acid Reflux ADHD Allergies Alzheimer's & Dementia Bipolar Disorder Cancer Chronic Pain Cold & Flu COPD Crohn's Disease Depression Fibromyalgia Health Insurance Exchanges Heart Disease High Cholesterol HIV Hypertension IBS Menopause Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Osteoarthritis Pregnancy Psoriasis Rheumatoid Arthritis Skin Disorders and Care STDs Type 2 Diabetes Health Tools Symptom Checker BodyMaps Clinical Trials Pill Identifier Opinion2 Health News Newsletter Sign-Up Diabetes Mine X Type 2 Diabetes Learn the Basics Assess Your Symptoms Find Treatments Manage Glucose Eat Better Get Support Home Treating With Insulin Type 2 Diabetes - Living Healthier Topics & Tools  Health Topics See all topics Acid Reflux ADHD Allergies Alzheimer's & Dementia Bipolar Disorder Cancer Chronic Pain Cold & Flu COPD Crohn's Disease Depression Fibromyalgia Health Insurance Exchanges Heart Disease High Cholesterol HIV Hypertension IBS Menopause Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Osteoarthritis Pregnancy Psoriasis Rheumatoid Arthritis Skin Disorders and Care STDs Type 2 Diabetes  Health Tools Symptom Checker BodyMaps Clinical Trials Pill Identifier Opinion2 Health News Newsletter Sign-Up Diabetes Mine Subscribe Advertisement   Healthline → Type 2 Diabetes → Treatments Find Treatments Managing type 2 diabetes requires you to take a proactive approach to your health. You’ll need to keep your blood sugar levels in check to keep your diabetes under control and to prevent serious complications. Monitor your blood sugar to help stay on top of your condition. Learn about which foods to eat—and which ones to avoid—as well as when to eat them. Exercise regularly to lower your blood sugar. Sometimes, blood sugar-regulating medication or insulin therapy might be necessary, and in rare cases, transplantation. Explore treatment options and work with your doctor to put together your best diabetes treatment plan.  Compare Treatment Options Learning to Manage Type 2 Diabetes Learning to Manage Type 2 Diabetes Find out how it can be managed » Type 2 Diabetes Type 2 Diabetes Watch the videos » Ask the Expert: Type 2 Diabetes Ask the Expert: Type 2 Diabetes Learn more » Choosing a Glucose Meter Choosing a Glucose Meter Find out. » Long Term Treatment Guide Long Term Treatment Guide Learn more » Insulin Therapy 101 Insulin Therapy 101 Learn about insulin therapy. » Diet and Nutrition Diet and Nutrition Improve your diet today. » Herbs and Supplements Herbs and Supplements Read about alternative treatment options. » Drugs to Increase Insulin Production Drugs to Increase Insulin Production Learn about this class of drugs and others. » Pancreas Transplants Pancreas Transplants Read about this medical procedure. » More Treatment Options Insulin Therapy Comparing Types of Insulin Insulin Pens Insulin Jet Injectors Insulin Pumps Oral Insulin Diet & Fitness The Fitness You Need for Diabetes Starting an Exercise Program Tips to Stick With Fitness Eat Better for Diabetes Diabetes 7 Day Meal Plan Drugs and Medications Type 2 Diabetes Drugs Overview Drugs to Increase Insulin Production Drugs that Alter Insulin Production Drugs that Interfere With Insulin Production Glucose Management Glucose Management and Treatment Plan Choosing a Glucose Meter Tips to Monitor Glucose Effectively Tight Diabetes Control Email Print Share Email this page Your Name: Your Email: Recipient's Email: Send Email addresses will not be shared with 3rd parties. See privacy policy Thank you. Your message has been sent. OK We're sorry, an error occurred. We are unable to collect your feedback at this time. However, your feedback is important to us. Please try again later. Close Advertisement Advertisement Close Advertisement As the fastest growing consumer health information site — with over 40 million monthly visitors — Healthline’s mission is to be your most trusted ally in your pursuit of health and well-being. You can depend on us to provide expert content along with genuine caring. Both of which will support, guide, and inspire you toward the best possible health outcomes for you and your family. Sign Up for Thank you! Health Tips Get the latest health & wellness advice delivered straight to your inbox, and check out our other newsletters. X Sign Up Your privacy is important to us Find us on: Facebook Twitter Google Plus Pinterest Site Map Health Topics Health News Diabetes Mine Opinion2 About Healthline About Us Advertising & Sponsorship Policy Privacy Policy Get in Touch Careers Advertise With Us Contact Newsletter Sign-Up This website is certified by Health On The Net. Click here to verify Copyright © 2005 - 2016 Healthline Media. All rights reserved for Healthline. Healthline content is strictly informational and should not be considered medical advice. See a certified medical professional for diagnosis and treatment recommendations. Terms of Use | Privacy Policy