Type 2 Diabetes Learn the Basics Assess Your Symptoms Find Treatments Manage Glucose Eat Better Get Support Home Treating With Insulin Type 2 Diabetes - Living Healthier Topics & Tools Health Topics See all topics Acid Reflux ADHD Allergies Alzheimer's & Dementia Bipolar Disorder Cancer Chronic Pain Cold & Flu COPD Crohn's Disease Depression Fibromyalgia Health Insurance Exchanges Heart Disease High Cholesterol HIV Hypertension IBS Menopause Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Osteoarthritis Pregnancy Psoriasis Rheumatoid Arthritis Skin Disorders and Care STDs Type 2 Diabetes Health Tools Symptom Checker BodyMaps Clinical Trials Pill Identifier Opinion2 Health News Newsletter Sign-Up Diabetes Mine X Type 2 Diabetes Learn the Basics Assess Your Symptoms Find Treatments Manage Glucose Eat Better Get Support Home Treating With Insulin Type 2 Diabetes - Living Healthier Topics & Tools  Health Topics See all topics Acid Reflux ADHD Allergies Alzheimer's & Dementia Bipolar Disorder Cancer Chronic Pain Cold & Flu COPD Crohn's Disease Depression Fibromyalgia Health Insurance Exchanges Heart Disease High Cholesterol HIV Hypertension IBS Menopause Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Osteoarthritis Pregnancy Psoriasis Rheumatoid Arthritis Skin Disorders and Care STDs Type 2 Diabetes  Health Tools Symptom Checker BodyMaps Clinical Trials Pill Identifier Opinion2 Health News Newsletter Sign-Up Diabetes Mine Subscribe Advertisement   Healthline → Type 2 Diabetes → Symptoms Assess Your Symptoms Type 2 diabetes is a slow-progressing disease, and symptoms aren’t always obvious. You may have had diabetes for years before you received a diagnosis or even noticed any symptoms, such as increased thirst or hunger, frequent urination, or recurring infections. When you have diabetes, you’re at higher risk for certain diseases, so it’s important to pay attention to symptoms of possible complications. Learn how to spot the symptoms of nerve, kidney, and heart damage, and mouth, skin, and hearing conditions before they progress.  Read Video Transcript »       Break It Down: Diabetic Neuropathy (Video Transcript) Patients with Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes face a number of potentially serious medical complications. One of the most common complications is diabetic neuropathy, which is a form of nerve damage that results from the effects of high blood sugar levels upon nerve fibers throughout the body. The most common form is called peripheral neuropathy, which mainly affects the arms and legs, causing pain, numbness, tingling, and loss of motor function. This loss of sensation can cause diabetics to be unaware of injuries and infections, especially in their feet, which in the worst case can lead to the need for an amputation. Recognizing the Signs: The symptoms of diabetic neuropathy, and in particular peripheral neuropathy, generally appear gradually. They begin in your feet and legs. Many diabetics describe this as a “pins and needles” type of sensation.  Other common signs and symptoms of diabetic neuropathy include: hypersensitivity to touch loss of sense of touch difficulty with coordination or walking numbness or pain in the extremities muscle weakness or wasting dizziness upon standing excessive sweating foot ulcers and skin infections Diagnosing: A number of physical examination methods and diagnostic testing allow doctors to make a diagnosis when a patient presents with symptoms of neuropathy. The arms and legs can be checked to see how well their nerves and muscles conduct electricity.  All diabetics should be instructed to check their feet for sores, ulcers, cuts, or signs of infection, so that treatment can be initiated as soon as possible and to prevent worsening of any bad condition. Treatment: There’s no cure for diabetic neuropathy, but there are treatments that can slow the progression and lessen the severity of symptoms. First and foremost, diabetics need to keep their blood sugar within optimal levels. Proper foot care and hygiene are extremely important. Several medications can help relieve the pain of diabetic neuropathy. These include certain anti-seizure drugs and antidepressants. Serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors seem to be effective at relieving the pain of neuropathy while producing an acceptable number of side effects.  But like so many conditions, what works for one person may not work for another, so doctors may prescribe a combination of medications until they find what works best for an individual patient.         Close   Bodies in Motion: Type 2 Diabetes This interactive tool featuring three dimensional anatomical models allows you to see and understand how type 2 diabetes can affect your body. Try it out. » Avoiding Hypertension (High Blood Pressure) People with type 2 diabetes are at significantly higher risk to develop hypertension and suffer heart attacks. Learn how to maintain good heart health. » Foot Complications One of the most common types diabetes complications are foot problems. Learn why foot issues can be dangerous. Read more. » Diabetes and Vision Loss Did you know unchecked blood sugar can lead to vision deterioration and even blindness? Learn more. » Diabetes and Depression Type 2 diabetes also affects a person's emotional well-being—those with diabetes are at higher risk for depression and other mental health issues. Learn more. » Diabetes Symptoms Learn about diabetes symptoms including blurred vision, frequent urination and pain. Read more. » Diabetes Symptoms and Complications Tests and Diagnosis A1C Glucose Test Checking for Ketones Oral Glucose Tolerance Test Random Glucose Testing Urine Tests Understanding a Type 2 Diabetes Diagnosis Prediabetes Diagnosis The Prediabetes and Diabetes Connection Common Diabetes Complications Skin Problems Kidney Disease Neuropathy (Nerve Damage) Oral Health Problems Peripheral Arterial Disease Hearing Loss Gastroparesis Diabetes and the Flu Recognizing and Addressing Symptoms Hypoglycemia Hyperglycemia Dealing With the Dawn Phenomenon Diabetes Symptoms To Watch Out For Visiting a Specialist Email Print Share Email this page Your Name: Your Email: Recipient's Email: Send Email addresses will not be shared with 3rd parties. See privacy policy Thank you. Your message has been sent. OK We're sorry, an error occurred. We are unable to collect your feedback at this time. However, your feedback is important to us. Please try again later. Close Advertisement Advertisement Close Advertisement As the fastest growing consumer health information site — with over 40 million monthly visitors — Healthline’s mission is to be your most trusted ally in your pursuit of health and well-being. You can depend on us to provide expert content along with genuine caring. Both of which will support, guide, and inspire you toward the best possible health outcomes for you and your family. Sign Up for Thank you! Health Tips Get the latest health & wellness advice delivered straight to your inbox, and check out our other newsletters. X Sign Up Your privacy is important to us Find us on: Facebook Twitter Google Plus Pinterest Site Map Health Topics Health News Diabetes Mine Opinion2 About Healthline About Us Advertising & Sponsorship Policy Privacy Policy Get in Touch Careers Advertise With Us Contact Newsletter Sign-Up This website is certified by Health On The Net. Click here to verify Copyright © 2005 - 2016 Healthline Media. All rights reserved for Healthline. Healthline content is strictly informational and should not be considered medical advice. See a certified medical professional for diagnosis and treatment recommendations. Terms of Use | Privacy Policy