Skip to content Check Your Symptoms Find A Doctor Sign In Sign UpSubscribe My ProfileWelcome My Tools My WebMD Pages My Account Sign Out Health A-Z Drugs & Supplements Living Healthy Family & Pregnancy News & Experts Common Conditions View All ADD/ADHD Allergies Arthritis Cancer Cold, Flu & Cough Depression Diabetes Eye Health Heart Disease Heartburn/GERD Pain Management Sexual Conditions Skin Problems Sleep Disorders Featured Topics See What Severe Psoriasis Looks Like 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Feeling Your Best When You Have MS Symptom Checker Health Concern On Your Mind? See what your medical symptoms could mean, and learn about possible conditions.Get Started Resources Second OpinionRead expert perspectives on popular health topics CommunitiesConnect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life Insurance GuideGet ready for changes to your health care coverage Physician DirectoryFind a doctor in your area Pain Coach Track your pain levels, triggers, and treatments. Set goals and get tips with our app. Download Find Information About: Drugs & Supplements Get information and reviews on prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, vitamins, and supplements. Search by name or medical condition. Find or Review a Drug Find or Review a Vitamin or Supplement Check for Drug Interactions Drugs Basics & Safety Commonly Abused Drugs What's Your Medication IQ? Taking Medications During Pregnancy Pill Identifier Having trouble identifying your pills? Enter the shape, color, or imprint of your prescription or OTC drug. Our pill identification tool will display pictures that you can compare to your pill.Get Started My Medicine Save your medicine, check interactions, sign up for FDA alerts, create family profiles and more.Get Started Drug News Vitamin B12 May Not Help Some Seniors Do Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? New Schizophrenia Drug Approved FDA: New, Stronger Warning for NSAIDs New Drug Approved for Heart Failure Mobile Drug Information App Drug, supplement, and vitamin information on the go. Download Featured Content Improve Your Concentration These Foods and Drinks Can Help Allergy App Fight allergies with daily forecasts, local alerts, and personalized tips. Download Living Healthy Centers View All Diet, Food & Fitness Diet & Weight Management Weight Loss & Obesity Food & Recipes Fitness & Exercise Beauty & Balance Healthy Beauty Health & Balance Sex & Relationships Oral Care Living Well Women's Health Men's Health Aging Well Teens Fit Kids Featured Topics Overcome Your Fear of Public Speaking New Clues Why Mosquitos Attack You Why Do You ... ACHOO!? Flash Fitness: Try the 7-Minute Workout Have Sensitive Teeth? See What to Do 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Featured Content What's That Rash? How to Treat Childhood Skin Problems Pregnancy App The big day is coming! Get organized and track baby's weekly development. Download Family and Pregnancy Centers Pregnancy Trying to Conceive First Trimester Second Trimester Third Trimester Parenting Newborn & Baby Children's Health Children's Vaccines Raising Fit Kids Pets Healthy Cats Healthy Dogs Featured Topics When Autism Grows Up Top Children's Hospitals Ranked Antidepressants Linked to Birth Defects When Are You Contagious? Which Birth Control Is Best for You? New Test May Help Spot Male Infertility News View All Why You Should Rethink That Drink Before Dinner New Clues Why Mosquitoes Find You Irresistible ArticleWomen: Too Much Sitting Ups Cancer Risk ArticlePopular Heartburn Meds Can Have Health Risks ArticleDo Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? WebMD Health Experts and Community Talk to health experts and other people like you in WebMD's Communities. It's a safe forum where you can create or participate in support groups and discussions about health topics that interest you. Second Opinion Read expert perspectives on popular health topics. Community Connect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life. Newsletters Sign up to receive WebMD's award-winning content delivered to your inbox.Sign Up WebMD Home Diabetes Health Center Diabetes Assessment Email a Friend Print Article Diabetes Assessment This content is selected and controlled by WebMD's editorial staff and is brought to you by Janssen Biotech, Inc. Retake Assessment Email Results Print Results How Well Are You Living With Diabetes? Get Started In just a couple of minutes, you'll get: A customized report based on your answers Information about diabetes Expert tips for living healthier Am I at Risk for Type 2 Diabetes? Get Started In just a couple of minutes, you'll get: A customized report based on your answers Information about diabetes Expert tips for living healthier Back Continue Reviewed by Michael Dansinger, MD on January 03, 2016 Sources: GENERAL, TYPE 2, and GESTATIONAL AACE Diabetes Mellitus Clinical Practice Guidelines Task Force. Endocrine Practice, May/June 2007. American Diabetes Association. Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes 2013. Diabetes Care, January 2013. Summary of revisions for the 2014 clinical practice recommendations. Diabetes Care, January 2014. Summary of revisions for the 2007 clinical practice recommendations. Diabetes Care, January 2007. Guideline for Detection and Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy, Joslin Diabetes Center, rev. Jun 15, 2011. American Diabetes Association, "Foundations of Care: Education, Nutrition, Physical Activity, Smoking Cessation, Psychosocial Care, and Immunization." Diabetes Care, January 2015. American Diabetes Association. Diabetes Care, January 2010. NIH/National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases: "Diabetes Risk Factors." Richardson, T, Weiss, M, Thomas P, Kerr, D. Diabetes Care, July 2005. CDC Growth Charts: United States, 2000. The Diabetes Prevention Program Research Group. Diabetes Care, April 1999. Wilson, P.W.F. Archives of Internal Medicine, October 2007. Dekker, J.M. Diabetes Care, May 2006. Diabetes Prevention Program Research Group. New England Journal of Medicine, June 2002. Stone, M.L. Diabetes Care, September 2006. The Diabetes Prevention Program Research Group. Diabetes Care, January 2005. Adler, A.I. Diabetes Care, April 1999. Lindstrom, J. Diabetes Care, March 2003. American Diabetes Association. Diabetes Care, March 2000. Franciosi, M. Diabetes Care, May 2005. National Diabetes Statistics, 2007. National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health. Brown, W.J. American Journal of Preventive Medicine, May 2007. Esposito, K. Molecular Nutrition & Food Research, October 2007. Blonde, L. American Journal of Medicine, September 2005. Prevention and Control of Influenza: Recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), 2007. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, July 13, 2007. Sigal, R.J. Diabetes Care, June 2006. Pradhan, A.D. American Journal of Medicine, August 2007. Wild, S. Diabetes Care, October 2004. Wang, Y. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, March 2005. "The 'ADA Diet' Myth," Diabetes Forecast, March 2011, American Diabetes Association. "Diabetes Risk after Gestational Diabetes," National Diabetes Education Program, March 2011. National Eye Institute: "Facts About Diabetic Retinopathy." American Diabetes Association: "Diabetes and Oral Health Problems," "Pregnant Women, "Hepatitis B," "Statistics About Diabetes," "What is Gestational Diabetes?" Premixed Insulin for Type 2 Diabetes: A Guide for Adults. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, March 2009. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: "Diabetes Data & Trends: Number (in Millions of Adults with Diabetes by Diabetes Medication Status, United States, 1997-2010," "Diabetes Latest," "Pneumococcal Vaccination." "National Diabetes Fact Sheet, 2011." U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2011. National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse (NDIC): "Insulin Resistance and Prediabetes," ""What I need to know about Gestational Diabetes." Joslin Diabetes Center: "Managing Diabetes During Pregnancy," "Gestational Diabetes." UpToDate: "Screening and diagnosis of diabetes mellitus during pregnancy," July 13, 2012. National Diabetes Education Program: "Take Action Now to Prevent Diabetes Later" Texas Diabetes Council:"Prevent Type 2 Diabetes" Cleveland Clinic: "Gestational Diabetes." TYPE 1 American Diabetes Association. Care of Children and Adolescents With Type 1 Diabetes, Diabetes Care, January 2005. Guideline for Detection and Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy, Joslin Diabetes Center, rev. Jun 15, 2011. American Diabetes Association. JDRF: Life with Type 1 Diabetes. Countdown, JDRF. JDRF: Kids Online. Joslin Diabetes Center. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: "Children and Diabetes -- More Information." University of California San Francisco: "New Diabetes Treatments Aim for Never-Ending Honeymoon," Feb 23, 2011. Rohrer, T. European Journal of Endocrinology, Nov 1, 2007. UpToDate: "Pregnancy evaluation and management of women with type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus," Jan 7, 2013; "Pregnancy risks in women with type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus," Jan 23, 2012; "US Medical Eligibility Criteria for Contraceptive Use: Summary of classifications for hormonal contraceptive methods and intrauterine devices," 2013; "Patient information: Type 1 diabetes mellitus and diet (Beyond the Basics)," Apr 4, 2012; "Smoking and cardiovascular risk in diabetes mellitus," Sep 21, 2012; "Associated autoimmune diseases in children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes mellitus," July 14, 2015. "Got Diabetes? Thinking about having a baby?" CDC, CS210599-B. Garg, S. Clinical Diabetes, Oct 2, 2009. Kjos, S.L. Obstetrics and Gynecology Clinics of North America, June 2007. National Institute on Aging: "Menopause." Khoo, C.L. Journal of the British Menopause Society, March 2005. Vantyghem, M.C. Annales d'Endocrinolgie, Sep 2006. Johns Hopkins Health Alerts: "The Challenge of 'Brittle' Diabetes," Aug 10, 2010; "Diabetes and Exercise -- Keeping Your Blood Glucose Levels in Check," Feb 7, 2006. Al-Tabakha, M.M. Indian Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences, May-June 2008. National Institute of Mental Health: "Depression and Diabetes" KidsHealth: "Treating Type 1 Diabetes," "Understanding Depression," "Helping Kids Cope With Stress," "Diabetes: Dealing With Feelings," "Other Diseases That Are More Common in People With Type 1 Diabetes," "My Friend Has Diabetes. How Can I Help?" Gerald Bernstein, MD, FACP, past president, American Diabetes Association; director, Diabetes Management Program, Friedman Diabetes Institute, Beth Israel Medical Center, New York. College Diabetes Network. U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission: "Questions and Answers About Diabetes in the Workplace and the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)." Gordon, S. HealthDay News via U.S. News & World Report, Mar 15, 2013. Ober, P. Health: Living With Diabetes, ABC News, Aug 15, 2008. Brody, J. "More Ways to Cope With Type 1 Diabetes," New York Times, Oct 24, 2011. Enzlin, P. Diabetes Care, April 2002. Cleveland Clinic: "Sexual Dysfunction and Disease." Umpierrez, G.E. Diabetes Care, April 2003. National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse: "Diabetic Neuropathies: The Nerve Damage of Diabetes." Sfarti, C. Journal of Gastrointestinal and Liver Diseases, September 2010. Gould, I.M. British Journal of Dermatology, August, 1985. Streisand, R. Journal of Pediatric Psychology, September 2005. Payne, J. U.S. News & World Report, Apr 9, 2010. Baruchin, A. New York Times, Aug 28, 2008. CoachesInfo: "Coaching the Athlete with Diabetes." Mayo Clinic: "Preeclampsia." FDA: "FDA approves Afrezza to treat diabetes."   This tool does not provide medical advice. See additional information: THIS TOOL DOES NOT PROVIDE MEDICAL ADVICE.  It is intended for informational purposes only. It is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Never ignore professional medical advice in seeking treatment because of something you have read on the WebMD Site. If you think you may have a medical emergency, immediately call your doctor or dial 911. © 2016 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. Brought to you by: Find us on: URAC: Accredited Health Web Site AdChoices About WebMD Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Advertising Policy Accessibility Sponsor Policy Site Map Careers Contact Us Medscape Reference eMedicineHealth RxList Medscape MedicineNet BootsWebMD WebMD Corporate WebMD Health Services First Aid WebMD Magazine WebMD Health Record WebMD Mobile Newsletters Dictionary Physician Directory ©2005-2016 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.