Type 2 Diabetes Learn the Basics Assess Your Symptoms Find Treatments Manage Glucose Eat Better Get Support Home Treating With Insulin Type 2 Diabetes - Living Healthier Topics & Tools Health Topics See all topics Acid Reflux ADHD Allergies Alzheimer's & Dementia Bipolar Disorder Cancer Chronic Pain Cold & Flu COPD Crohn's Disease Depression Fibromyalgia Health Insurance Exchanges Heart Disease High Cholesterol HIV Hypertension IBS Menopause Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Osteoarthritis Pregnancy Psoriasis Rheumatoid Arthritis Skin Disorders and Care STDs Type 2 Diabetes Health Tools Symptom Checker BodyMaps Clinical Trials Pill Identifier Opinion2 Health News Newsletter Sign-Up Diabetes Mine X Type 2 Diabetes Learn the Basics Assess Your Symptoms Find Treatments Manage Glucose Eat Better Get Support Home Treating With Insulin Type 2 Diabetes - Living Healthier Topics & Tools  Health Topics See all topics Acid Reflux ADHD Allergies Alzheimer's & Dementia Bipolar Disorder Cancer Chronic Pain Cold & Flu COPD Crohn's Disease Depression Fibromyalgia Health Insurance Exchanges Heart Disease High Cholesterol HIV Hypertension IBS Menopause Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Osteoarthritis Pregnancy Psoriasis Rheumatoid Arthritis Skin Disorders and Care STDs Type 2 Diabetes  Health Tools Symptom Checker BodyMaps Clinical Trials Pill Identifier Opinion2 Health News Newsletter Sign-Up Diabetes Mine Subscribe Advertisement   Healthline → Type 2 Diabetes → Learn the Basics What Do You Want to Know About Type 2 Diabetes? Written by Katherine Brind'Amour Medically Reviewed on July 24, 2014 by Peggy Pletcher, MS, RD, LD, CDE Email Print Share Email this page Your Name: Your Email: Recipient's Email: Send Email addresses will not be shared with 3rd parties. See privacy policy Thank you. Your message has been sent. OK We're sorry, an error occurred. We are unable to collect your feedback at this time. However, your feedback is important to us. Please try again later. Close Type 2 diabetes is a chronic disease in which people have problems regulating their blood sugar. People with diabetes have high blood sugar because their bodies: do not produce enough insulin are not responsive to insulin a combination of both Type 2 diabetes is extremely common. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates that over 29 million children and adults in the United States have some form of diabetes. That is about 9 percent of the population. The vast majority of these people have type 2 diabetes.  How Type 2 Diabetes Affects Blood Sugar When you eat food, the body digests the carbohydrates in into a type of sugar called glucose. Glucose is the main source of energy for cells. Cells rely on the hormone insulin to absorb and use glucose as a form of energy. Insulin is produced by the pancreas. People usually develop type 2 diabetes because their cells have become resistant to insulin. Then, over time, their body may stop making sufficient insulin as well. These problems lead to blood sugar, or glucose, building up in the blood Types of Diabetes There are several different types of diabetes: Type 1 Diabetes Type 1 diabetes used to be known as juvenile onset diabetes because it is usually first diagnosed in childhood, though it can be diagnosed later in life as well.. People with type 1 diabetes cannot make insulin and are insulin dependent. They must use insulin injections to control their blood sugar. According to the CDC, only about five percent of people with diabetes have type 1 diabetes (CDC). There is no known way to prevent type 1 diabetes. Type 2 Diabetes Type 2 diabetes is the most common type of diabetes, and was once  known as adult onset diabetes. However, in recent years, the rate of type 2 diagnoses in children has been growing. Type 2 diabetes usually starts as insulin resistance. Cells stop responding properly to insulin and sugar is unable to get from the blood into the cells. Over time, the pancreas cannot make enough insulin to keep blood sugars in the normal range and the body becomes progressively less able to regulate blood sugar. Many people with diabetes can manage their blood sugar with diet and exercise, especially if they lose weight (if they are overweight).  If not, medications to help control blood sugar are available. Unlike type 1 diabetes, type 2 diabetes is often preventable. Risk factors for type 2 diabetes include: obesity sedentary lifestyle older age family history of diabetes history of gestational diabetes race or ethnicity You can greatly reduce your risk of type 2 diabetes by keeping your weight in its ideal range and exercising regularly. If you have been diagnosed with pre-diabetes, talk to your doctor about how to lower your risk for progressing to type 2 diabetes Other Types of Diabetes Pregnant women are at risk of gestational diabetes, characterized by high blood sugar levels that are associated with pregnancy. This form of diabetes usually resolves or goes away after a woman gives birth. However, she must carefully control her blood sugar during pregnancy to reduce the risk of possible complications. Women with gestational diabetes have an increased risk of type 2 diabetes later in life. Certain diseases and genetic conditions can also cause other types of diabetes. However, these types of diabetes are rare. Long-Term Outlook for People with Type 2 Diabetes Uncontrolled diabetes significantly increases your risk of long-term health problems and even death. According to the CDC, the death rate for people with type 2 diabetes is twice as high as that of people the same age people without diabetes. In addition, diabetes increases your risk of conditions such as: heart disease stroke high blood pressure eye disease, including blindness kidney disease nervous system damage amputations dental problems Diabetes is the leading cause of blindness, kidney failure (CDC) and amputations among adults. Fortunately, most of the complications of type 2 diabetes are preventable. Keeping your blood sugar under control can prevent serious complications. This requires a lifelong commitment to staying healthy, including: eating well maintaining a healthy weight exercising taking medications, as prescribed by your doctor In addition, regular preventative care visits can help keep minor complications from becoming more serious ones. For example: Your eye doctor can catch problems early before they lead to blindness. Early kidney treatment can help maintain kidney function. Regular foot checks can reduce the risk of damage extensive enough to require amputation. Don’t let diabetes control your life. Control your blood sugar instead, and take charge of your health.  Article Sources: Diabetes statistics. (n.d.). American Diabetes Association. Retrieved September 10, 2012, from http://www.diabetes.org/diabetes-basics/diabetes-statistics/ National diabetes fact sheet: National estimates and general information on diabetes and prediabetes in the United States, 2011. (2011). Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Retrieved September 10, 2012, from http://www.cdc.gov/diabetes/pubs/pdf/ndfs_2011.pdf Type 2 diabetes. (2011, June 28). PubMed Health. Retrieved September 10, 2012, from http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmedhealth/PMH0001356/ Type 2 diabetes – Risk factors. (2011, June 28). PubMed Health. Retrieved September 10, 2012, from http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmedhealth/PMH0002772/ Where do I begin? (n.d.). American Diabetes Association. Retrieved September 10, 2012, from http://main.diabetes.org/dorg/lwt2d/Where_Do_I_Begin-American_Diabetes_Association-v3.pdf   Show all Email Print Share Read more Read less Learn About Type 2 Diabetes The Long-Term Effects of Type 2 Diabetes The Long-Term Effects of Type 2 Diabetes Try it out. » Type 2 Diabetes Statistics and Facts Type 2 Diabetes Statistics and Facts Find out these facts and more. » Type 2 Diabetes 101 Type 2 Diabetes 101 Learn the basics. » Glucose and the Body Glucose and the Body Learn how glucose affects your body. » Diabetes: Is it In Your Genes? Diabetes: Is it In Your Genes? Find out. » The Smoking and Diabetes Connection The Smoking and Diabetes Connection Read more. » Prediabetes: What's Next? Prediabetes: What's Next? FInd out what's next. » Understanding a Diabetes Diagnosis Understanding a Diabetes Diagnosis Learn more about what a diagnosis means. » The Prediabetes and Diabetes Connection The Prediabetes and Diabetes Connection Find out. » The History of Type 2 Diabetes The History of Type 2 Diabetes Learn more. » Email Print Share Advertisement Advertisement Close Advertisement As the fastest growing consumer health information site — with over 40 million monthly visitors — Healthline’s mission is to be your most trusted ally in your pursuit of health and well-being. You can depend on us to provide expert content along with genuine caring. Both of which will support, guide, and inspire you toward the best possible health outcomes for you and your family. Sign Up for Thank you! Health Tips Get the latest health & wellness advice delivered straight to your inbox, and check out our other newsletters. X Sign Up Your privacy is important to us Find us on: Facebook Twitter Google Plus Pinterest Site Map Health Topics Health News Diabetes Mine Opinion2 About Healthline About Us Advertising & Sponsorship Policy Privacy Policy Get in Touch Careers Advertise With Us Contact Newsletter Sign-Up This website is certified by Health On The Net. Click here to verify Copyright © 2005 - 2016 Healthline Media. All rights reserved for Healthline. Healthline content is strictly informational and should not be considered medical advice. See a certified medical professional for diagnosis and treatment recommendations. Terms of Use | Privacy Policy