Skip to content Check Your Symptoms Find A Doctor Sign In Sign UpSubscribe My ProfileWelcome My Tools My WebMD Pages My Account Sign Out Health A-Z Drugs & Supplements Living Healthy Family & Pregnancy News & Experts Common Conditions View All ADD/ADHD Allergies Arthritis Cancer Cold, Flu & Cough Depression Diabetes Eye Health Heart Disease Heartburn/GERD Pain Management Sexual Conditions Skin Problems Sleep Disorders Featured Topics See What Severe Psoriasis Looks Like 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Feeling Your Best When You Have MS Symptom Checker Health Concern On Your Mind? See what your medical symptoms could mean, and learn about possible conditions.Get Started Resources Second OpinionRead expert perspectives on popular health topics CommunitiesConnect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life Insurance GuideGet ready for changes to your health care coverage Physician DirectoryFind a doctor in your area Pain Coach Track your pain levels, triggers, and treatments. Set goals and get tips with our app. Download Find Information About: Drugs & Supplements Get information and reviews on prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, vitamins, and supplements. Search by name or medical condition. Find or Review a Drug Find or Review a Vitamin or Supplement Check for Drug Interactions Drugs Basics & Safety Commonly Abused Drugs What's Your Medication IQ? Taking Medications During Pregnancy Pill Identifier Having trouble identifying your pills? Enter the shape, color, or imprint of your prescription or OTC drug. Our pill identification tool will display pictures that you can compare to your pill.Get Started My Medicine Save your medicine, check interactions, sign up for FDA alerts, create family profiles and more.Get Started Drug News Vitamin B12 May Not Help Some Seniors Do Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? New Schizophrenia Drug Approved FDA: New, Stronger Warning for NSAIDs New Drug Approved for Heart Failure Mobile Drug Information App Drug, supplement, and vitamin information on the go. Download Featured Content Improve Your Concentration These Foods and Drinks Can Help Allergy App Fight allergies with daily forecasts, local alerts, and personalized tips. Download Living Healthy Centers View All Diet, Food & Fitness Diet & Weight Management Weight Loss & Obesity Food & Recipes Fitness & Exercise Beauty & Balance Healthy Beauty Health & Balance Sex & Relationships Oral Care Living Well Women's Health Men's Health Aging Well Teens Fit Kids Featured Topics Overcome Your Fear of Public Speaking New Clues Why Mosquitos Attack You Why Do You ... ACHOO!? Flash Fitness: Try the 7-Minute Workout Have Sensitive Teeth? See What to Do 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Featured Content What's That Rash? How to Treat Childhood Skin Problems Pregnancy App The big day is coming! Get organized and track baby's weekly development. Download Family and Pregnancy Centers Pregnancy Trying to Conceive First Trimester Second Trimester Third Trimester Parenting Newborn & Baby Children's Health Children's Vaccines Raising Fit Kids Pets Healthy Cats Healthy Dogs Featured Topics When Autism Grows Up Top Children's Hospitals Ranked Antidepressants Linked to Birth Defects When Are You Contagious? Which Birth Control Is Best for You? New Test May Help Spot Male Infertility News View All Why You Should Rethink That Drink Before Dinner New Clues Why Mosquitoes Find You Irresistible ArticleWomen: Too Much Sitting Ups Cancer Risk ArticlePopular Heartburn Meds Can Have Health Risks ArticleDo Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? WebMD Health Experts and Community Talk to health experts and other people like you in WebMD's Communities. It's a safe forum where you can create or participate in support groups and discussions about health topics that interest you. Second Opinion Read expert perspectives on popular health topics. Community Connect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life. Newsletters Sign up to receive WebMD's award-winning content delivered to your inbox.Sign Up WebMD Home Diabetes Health Center Diabetes Slideshows Email a Friend Print Article Best and Worst Meals for Diabetes-Savvy Dining Loading Next Slideshow Diabetes-Savvy Meals in a Glance When you have type 2 diabetes, eating a good balance of protein, carbohydrates, and healthy fats is important. Some people find it helps to count carbs, too. So what's a well-balanced dinner? A power breakfast? You just have to know how to choose within the guidelines your doctor gives you. Worse Bet: Farm Breakfast The Count: 2,060 calories, 276 g carbs No food is off-limits with diabetes, but this brunch will blow your carb and calorie budget in a hurry. Experts suggest that meals for people with diabetes should have 45-75 grams of carbohydrates, depending on individual goals. Your body weight, activity, and medications all matter. This meal packs enough carbs for four to five meals. Better Bet: New American Breakfast The Count: 294 calories, 40 g carbs This quick meal delivers protein in a scrambled egg, and just 40 carbs, mostly from fiber-rich oatmeal and blueberries. Fiber slows digestion to help prevent blood sugar spikes. People with diabetes need to watch all types of carbs: cereal, bread, rice, pasta, starchy veggies, sweets, fruit, milk, and yogurt. Spread your total carbs across the day. Worse Bet: Chips, Salsa, Burrito The Count: 1,760 calories, 183 g carbs.  Before one bite of burrito, you can get 98 grams of carbs and 810 calories in a basket  of chips and salsa. If you're trying to slim down and eat less sodium, like many people with diabetes, the burrito adds 950 calories. You also get way more than a whole day's worth of sodium. Better Bet: Beef and Bean Enchilada The Count: 443 calories, 48 g carbs Lean beef and black beans make this Mexican dish a good option for a diabetic diet. The fiber in the beans can help lower blood cholesterol and control blood sugar. Go heavy on the veggies and light on cheese. Enjoy 10 small corn chips (1 ounce) with a little guacamole. Worse Bet: Southern Rib Plate The Count: 2,510 calories, 83 g carbs This classic Southern meal loads too many splurge foods onto one plate. Fatty pork ribs are dripping in sugary barbecue sauce and flanked by macaroni and cheese and corn on the cob. Corn is a high-carb vegetable, with about 19 grams of carbs in one medium ear. It's just too much, all around. Better Bet: Pork Tenderloin Meal The Count: 360 calories, 42 g carbs Pork tenderloin is one of the leanest and most versatile cuts of meat. Here it's prepared in a Dijon mustard glaze, and served with steamed broccoli and mock mashed potatoes. Pureed cauliflower stands in beautifully for carb-heavy white potatoes. Round out the meal with a whole wheat dinner roll. Worse Bet: Shrimp Pasta Alfredo The Count: 2,290 calories, 196 g carbs  A typical shrimp pasta Alfredo in your local eatery can have huge portions and 73 grams of artery-clogging saturated fat. Diabetes makes heart disease more likely, so doctors advise limiting saturated fat to about 15 grams per day for a 2,000-calorie diet.   Better Bet: Shrimp, Feta Pasta The Count: 369 calories, 48 g carbs Low-fat shrimp and juicy, ripe tomatoes make this pasta dish a winner for everyone. Feta cheese has a tangy flavor with one-third less fat than hard cheese. Try pasta that is made of 50% to 100% whole grain to add the benefits of fiber: better blood sugar control and more satisfaction. Worse Bet: Tuna Sandwich Meal The Count: 1,050 calories, 183 g carbs Lunch is just as important as other meals when you have diabetes, so don't grab just any sandwich or wrap. Ready-to-eat tuna salad can be swimming in mayonnaise. Chips and a large sweetened drink push the total carbs to 183 grams: far too much. Better Bet: Turkey-Veggie Sandwich The Count: 445 calories, 55 g carbs  Order a turkey sandwich on fresh, whole-grain bread, piled high with veggies. Make it a combo with fruit salad and a glass of low-fat milk for a terrific, diabetes-friendly meal. Six grams of fiber helps to manage blood sugar. Milk, fruit, and veggies are all high in potassium to help lower blood pressure. Worse Bet: Cajun Sausage Gumbo The Count: 1,069 calories, 92 g carbs Rotisserie chicken provides a reasonable start for a Cajun gumbo lunch, but the sausage, oily soup base, and giant corn muffin make this meal a problem. Fat, saturated fat, and calories are sky-high. The large corn muffin has 71 grams of carbs. A mini-muffin offers the same taste for only about 9 grams of carbs. Better Bet: Trim Chicken Gumbo The Count: 451 calories, 42 g carbs  Gumbos you make at home are more likely to fit within your meal plan. Use reduced-fat sausage, authentic Cajun flavors, brown rice, and lots of high-fiber vegetables. Add a whole-grain salad medley with nuts, dried fruit, and chopped veggies. Worse Bet: Fried Chicken Meal The Count: 1,030 calories, 96 g carbs  Skip the fried chicken, mashed potato, and biscuit combo at your local chicken joint. Even if you order the white meat chicken breast, this meal is heavy on carbs and fat. It also has more than twice as much sodium as you should get in a day if you have diabetes. Better Bet: Roast Chicken Meal The Count: 312 calories, 29 g carbs Roast chicken is simple to make. Serve up 1/2 cup of breast meat, skin removed. Add sweet potatoes and asparagus for a super-nutritious meal. The potatoes are high in fiber and vitamin A. They're so naturally sweet, all they need is a sprinkle of cinnamon, a spice that may help manage blood sugar. Worse Bet: Hamburger Meal Deal The Count: 2,700 calories, 309 g carbs A bacon cheeseburger, large fries, and large soda have more than a day's worth of carbs, 2,700 calories, and 44 grams of saturated fat. "Upsizing" and low prices make it hard to eat small portions in burger joints. Better Bet: Asian Tuna Burger The Count: 437 calories, 38 g carbs Make this Asian Tuna Burger at home. Tuna gives you heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids. Add a whole-grain bun, 1/2 cup of broccoli-carrot slaw, and a few orange slices. Skip the bun to shave 23 grams of carbs from your plate. Turkey and veggie burgers can also be good alternatives, if you check the calorie count. Worse Bet: Fish Fry Platter The Count: 910 calories, 92 g carbs Fish is part of a heart-healthy diet, unless it happens to be fried. The breading, oil, and extra calories cancel out the health benefits of the fish itself. Beware of fried sides, too, as well as coleslaw slathered in sugary mayonnaise dressing. Better Bet: Grilled Fish and Veggies The Count: 456 calories, 48 g carbs  A super meal for people with diabetes, or anyone else, begins with grilled or baked fish. A grilled corn salsa and a beet, pear, and walnut salad round out the meal. The total carbs don't go overboard (48 grams), and there's a good balance of other key nutrients: protein, fiber, and fat. Worse Bet: Chinese Combo The Count: 1,433 calories, 125 g carbs Deep-fried egg rolls, fried rice, and a main dish dripping in oily sauce make this meal an unhealthy choice. The total sodium in this type of meal is more than most people with diabetes should have over 3 days. Beware the MSG (monosodium glutamate), a seasoning that sends the sodium content soaring. Better Bet: Stir-Fry Your Way The Count: 474 calories, 39 g carbs Make your own beef and broccoli stir-fry meal, so you can choose a lean cut of beef and low-sodium soy sauce. Skip the greasy noodles and fried rice -- both options are full of carbs, calories, and fat. Load up on stir-fried veggies instead. Choose steamed instead of fried pot stickers to shave fat calories. For even less sodium, skip the soy sauce. Related Reading Dining Out With Diabetes Best and Worst Foods for Diabetes All in a Day: Easy Diabetic Meal Plan Diabetes and Alcohol Quick Tips Cinnamon and Diabetes Tool: Track Carbs and Calories WebMD Diabetes Community Video: Vinegar for Diabetes? Previous 1/22 Next Previous 1/22 Next Reviewed by Brunilda Nazario, MD on April 30, 2014 Sources: IMAGES PROVIDED BY: 1) Barry Wong,Craig van der Lende/Photographer’s Choice 2) Corbis, Spike Mafford/Photodisc 3) Steve Pomberg/WebMD 4) Steve Pomberg/WebMD 5) Steve Pomberg/WebMD 6) iStock 7) Steve Pomberg/WebMD 8) Hemera 9) Steve Pomberg/WebMD 10) Steve Pomberg/WebMD 11) Steve Pomberg/WebMD 12) Lisa Fain/FoodPix 13) Steve Pomberg/WebMD 14) Hemera 15) Steve Pomberg/WebMD 16) iStock 17) Steve Pomberg/WebMD 18) iStock 19) Steve Pomberg/WebMD 20) iStock 21) Steve Pomberg/WebMD REFERENCES: Akilen, R. Diabetic Medicine, October 2010. American Diabetes Association. Complete Guide to Diabetes, 2011. American Heart Association: "Fish and Omega 3 Fatty Acids." Baja Fresh. Buffalo Wild Wings. Cheesecake Factory. Chili’s Grill & Bar Restaurant. Five Guys. Harvard Medical School: "Healthy Eating for Type 2 Diabetes." Clegg, H. Holly Clegg’sTrim and Terrific Diabetic Cooking, American Diabetes Association, 2007. Hurley, J. Nutrition Action Healthletter, March 21, 2007. Liebman, B. Nutrition Action Healthletter, December 2011. Long John Silver's. Panda Express. Panera Bread. Perkins Family Restaurant & Bakery. P.F. Chang's China Bistro. Popeye’s Louisiana Kitchen. Constance Brown-Riggs, MSEd, RD, CDE, spokeswoman, Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics; author, The African American Guide To Living Well With Diabetes, Career Press, 2010. U.S. Department of Agriculture: "Nutrient Database." This tool does not provide medical advice. See additional information: THIS TOOL DOES NOT PROVIDE MEDICAL ADVICE. It is intended for general informational purposes only and does not address individual circumstances. It is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment and should not be relied on to make decisions about your health. Never ignore professional medical advice in seeking treatment because of something you have read on the WebMD Site. If you think you may have a medical emergency, immediately call your doctor or dial 911. © 2014 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD Slideshows View our slideshows to learn more about your health. Psoriasis 14 home remedies to try. Rheumatoid Arthritis Is it the source of your aches? Foods for Focus Eat these to help you stay on task. Multiple Sclerosis Warning signs to watch out for. Attention Killers What steals your concentration? Cancer Does THIS cause cancer? Popular Reading on WebMD 7 Diet Tips That Really Work Cholesterol Concerns? Get Personalized Tips Quiz: Men’s Biggest Bedroom Worries Pill Identification Tool Food and Fitness Planner The Truth About Belly Fat Am I Pregnant? 5 Ways Pets Can Improve Your Health Advertisement Health Solutions From Our Sponsors Exercise & OA Knee Pain RA and Pregnancy Lung Cancer Treatment Breast Cancer Advances IBS-C Symptoms? Facts About Skin Cancer Help with Painful Knees New Way to Take Insulin Diagnosed with Cancer? Melanoma Immunotherapy CML Treatment Plan Aortic Valve Stenosis? OA Doctor Answers Hodgkin Lymphoma Treatment Frequent Constipation? More From WebMD: Hemophilia Treatment|RA Basics|Psoriasis|MS Assessment|Hemophilia Questions|Anaphylaxis|ADHD in Children|Diabetes Diet|Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma |Breast Cancer|Toenail Fungus|Incontinence|COPD|Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials|Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis Find us on: URAC: Accredited Health Web Site AdChoices About WebMD Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Advertising Policy Accessibility Sponsor Policy Site Map Careers Contact Us Medscape Reference eMedicineHealth RxList Medscape MedicineNet BootsWebMD WebMD Corporate WebMD Health Services First Aid WebMD Magazine WebMD Health Record WebMD Mobile Newsletters Dictionary Physician Directory ©2005-2016 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.