Skip to content Check Your Symptoms Find A Doctor Sign In Sign UpSubscribe My ProfileWelcome My Tools My WebMD Pages My Account Sign Out Health A-Z Drugs & Supplements Living Healthy Family & Pregnancy News & Experts Common Conditions View All ADD/ADHD Allergies Arthritis Cancer Cold, Flu & Cough Depression Diabetes Eye Health Heart Disease Heartburn/GERD Pain Management Sexual Conditions Skin Problems Sleep Disorders Featured Topics See What Severe Psoriasis Looks Like 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Feeling Your Best When You Have MS Symptom Checker Health Concern On Your Mind? See what your medical symptoms could mean, and learn about possible conditions.Get Started Resources Second OpinionRead expert perspectives on popular health topics CommunitiesConnect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life Insurance GuideGet ready for changes to your health care coverage Physician DirectoryFind a doctor in your area Pain Coach Track your pain levels, triggers, and treatments. Set goals and get tips with our app. Download Find Information About: Drugs & Supplements Get information and reviews on prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, vitamins, and supplements. Search by name or medical condition. Find or Review a Drug Find or Review a Vitamin or Supplement Check for Drug Interactions Drugs Basics & Safety Commonly Abused Drugs What's Your Medication IQ? Taking Medications During Pregnancy Pill Identifier Having trouble identifying your pills? Enter the shape, color, or imprint of your prescription or OTC drug. Our pill identification tool will display pictures that you can compare to your pill.Get Started My Medicine Save your medicine, check interactions, sign up for FDA alerts, create family profiles and more.Get Started Drug News Vitamin B12 May Not Help Some Seniors Do Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? New Schizophrenia Drug Approved FDA: New, Stronger Warning for NSAIDs New Drug Approved for Heart Failure Mobile Drug Information App Drug, supplement, and vitamin information on the go. Download Featured Content Improve Your Concentration These Foods and Drinks Can Help Allergy App Fight allergies with daily forecasts, local alerts, and personalized tips. Download Living Healthy Centers View All Diet, Food & Fitness Diet & Weight Management Weight Loss & Obesity Food & Recipes Fitness & Exercise Beauty & Balance Healthy Beauty Health & Balance Sex & Relationships Oral Care Living Well Women's Health Men's Health Aging Well Teens Fit Kids Featured Topics Overcome Your Fear of Public Speaking New Clues Why Mosquitos Attack You Why Do You ... ACHOO!? Flash Fitness: Try the 7-Minute Workout Have Sensitive Teeth? See What to Do 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Featured Content What's That Rash? How to Treat Childhood Skin Problems Pregnancy App The big day is coming! Get organized and track baby's weekly development. Download Family and Pregnancy Centers Pregnancy Trying to Conceive First Trimester Second Trimester Third Trimester Parenting Newborn & Baby Children's Health Children's Vaccines Raising Fit Kids Pets Healthy Cats Healthy Dogs Featured Topics When Autism Grows Up Top Children's Hospitals Ranked Antidepressants Linked to Birth Defects When Are You Contagious? Which Birth Control Is Best for You? New Test May Help Spot Male Infertility News View All Why You Should Rethink That Drink Before Dinner New Clues Why Mosquitoes Find You Irresistible ArticleWomen: Too Much Sitting Ups Cancer Risk ArticlePopular Heartburn Meds Can Have Health Risks ArticleDo Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? WebMD Health Experts and Community Talk to health experts and other people like you in WebMD's Communities. It's a safe forum where you can create or participate in support groups and discussions about health topics that interest you. Second Opinion Read expert perspectives on popular health topics. Community Connect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life. Newsletters Sign up to receive WebMD's award-winning content delivered to your inbox.Sign Up WebMD Home Diabetes Health Center Gestational Diabetes Guide Email a Friend Print Article Diabetes Trends: Diabetes Symptoms Diabetic Diet Gestational Diabetes Health Check: Type 2 Diabetes Prediabetes Insulin Pump Diabetes Health Center Tools & Resources Is Your Diabetes Under Control? 10-Minute Diabetes Tips Diabetes: How to Count Carbs Diabetes Diet Dos and Don'ts Diabetes Menu Plan 4 Every Day Tips for Diabetes Select An Article All Subchapter Articles:Pregnancy and Gestational DiabetesGestational Diabetes - the Basics What Is Gestational Diabetes? In this article Causes Are You at Risk? Diagnosis Treatment Font Size A A A Gestational diabetes only happens during pregnancy. If you have it, you can still have a healthy baby, with help from your doctor and by doing simple things every day to manage your blood sugar. After your baby is born, you may not have diabetes anymore. Gestational diabetes makes you more likely to develop type 2 diabetes, but it won’t definitely happen. Also See: Diabetes is a serious disease that can cause debilitating nerve pain. Here's some helpful information: 6 Diabetes Diet Tips 8 Risk Factors for Nerve Pain 10 Diabetes Foot Care Tips Assess Yourself: Take the Diabetes Type 2 Health Check Related to Diabetes Nerve Pain symptoms, medications, Exercise tips, Treatment, Diabetes diet, Pain relief, Foot protection © 2008 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. Causes During pregnancy, the placenta makes hormones that can lead to a buildup of sugar in your blood. Usually, your pancreas can make enough insulin to handle that. If not, your blood sugar levels will rise and can cause gestational diabetes. Are You at Risk? You are more likely to get gestational diabetes if: You were overweight before you got pregnant. You are African-American, Asian, Hispanic, or Native American. Your blood sugar levels are high, but not high enough to be diabetes. Diabetes runs in your family. You’ve had gestational diabetes before. Diagnosis Your doctor will check to see if you have gestational diabetes ASAP if you’re likely to get it, or between weeks 24 and 28 of your pregnancy if you’re not at high risk. To test for gestational diabetes, you will quickly drink a sugary drink. This will raise your blood sugar levels. An hour later, you’ll take a blood test to see how your body handled all that sugar. If the result shows that your blood sugar is 140 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) or greater, you will fast for a few hours and then take another blood test. If your results are normal but you have a high risk of getting gestational diabetes, you may need a follow-up test later in your pregnancy to make sure you still don’t have it. Treatment To treat your gestational diabetes, your doctor will ask you to: Check your blood sugar levels four or more times a day. Do urine tests that check for ketones, which mean that your diabetes is not under control Eat a healthy diet that’s in line with your doctor’s recommendations Make exercise a habit Your doctor will track how much weight you gain and let you know if you need to take insulin or other medicine for your gestational diabetes. WebMD Medical Reference View Article Sources SOURCES: American Diabetes Association: "Gestational Diabetes." Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality: "Gestational Diabetes: A Guide for Pregnant Women." American College of Nurse Midwives: "Gestational Diabetes."   Reviewed by Kecia Gaither, MD, MPH on April 03, 2015 © 2015 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. Next Article: Pregnancy and Gestational DiabetesGestational Diabetes - the Basics Gestational Diabetes Guide 1 Gestational Diabetes 2 Symptoms & Causes 3 Prevention & Treatments 4 Diagnosis & Tests 5 Living With Gestational Diabetes 6 Complications Continue reading below... Further Reading: Diabetes Overview The Basics of Gestational Diabetes Understanding the Symptoms of Gestational Diabetes Understanding Prevention of Gestational Diabetes What Causes Gestational Diabetes? What Type of Diet Is Good for Gestational Diabetes? Is It OK to Exercise If I Have Gestational Diabetes? See All Gestational Diabetes Topics Gestational Diabetes Home Medical Reference Features News Archive Gestational Diabetes Guide 1 Gestational Diabetes 2 Symptoms & Causes 3 Prevention & Treatments 4 Diagnosis & Tests 5 Living With Gestational Diabetes 6 Complications Related to Diabetes Blood Glucose Tracker Eye Problems Insulin Living Healthy Metabolic Syndrome Oral Care Prediabetes More Related Topics Today on WebMD Type 2 Diabetes Symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and more. Muscle Moves for Diabetes 10 strength training exercises.   Avoiding Diabetes Complications 12 practical tips. Celebrities With Diabetes Stars living with type 1 or type 2.   Video Bariatric Surgery and Type 2 Diabetes Article Can Vinegar Treat Diabetes?   Tool Tips for Staying Healthy With Diabetes Video Benefits of Eating Low GI   Article Prediabetes: 7 Steps to Take Now Slideshow Type 2 Diabetes: What Is It?   Tool Track Carbs and Calories Slideshow What Your Feet Say About Your Health   WebMD Special Sections Managing Diabetes, Insulin, and High Blood Sugar Your Child and Type 1 Diabetes Type 2 Diabetes: Learn How New Treatments Can Help You Diabetes: Keeping Up With Your Active Life Control Blood Sugar: Diet, Exercise, and Insulin Tips Ready to Take Control of Your Diabetes? Diabetes and Your Skin Living with Diabetes Assessment Making Progress With Diabetes Diabetes: Keys to Better Daily Control Diabetes as You Age: Stay Active, Live Better Diabetes: Ready to Lower Your Blood Sugar? Health Solutions From Our Sponsors Exercise & OA Knee Pain RA and Pregnancy Lung Cancer Treatment Breast Cancer Advances IBS-C Symptoms? Facts About Skin Cancer Help with Painful Knees New Way to Take Insulin Diagnosed with Cancer? Melanoma Immunotherapy CML Treatment Plan Aortic Valve Stenosis? OA Doctor Answers Hodgkin Lymphoma Treatment Frequent Constipation? More From WebMD: Hemophilia Treatment|RA Basics|Psoriasis|MS Assessment|Hemophilia Questions|Anaphylaxis|ADHD in Children|Diabetes Diet|Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma |Breast Cancer|Toenail Fungus|Incontinence|COPD|Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials|Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis Find us on: URAC: Accredited Health Web Site AdChoices About WebMD Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Advertising Policy Accessibility Sponsor Policy Site Map Careers Contact Us Medscape Reference eMedicineHealth RxList Medscape MedicineNet BootsWebMD WebMD Corporate WebMD Health Services First Aid WebMD Magazine WebMD Health Record WebMD Mobile Newsletters Dictionary Physician Directory ©2005-2016 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.