Skip to content Check Your Symptoms Find A Doctor Sign In Sign UpSubscribe My ProfileWelcome My Tools My WebMD Pages My Account Sign Out Health A-Z Drugs & Supplements Living Healthy Family & Pregnancy News & Experts Common Conditions View All ADD/ADHD Allergies Arthritis Cancer Cold, Flu & Cough Depression Diabetes Eye Health Heart Disease Heartburn/GERD Pain Management Sexual Conditions Skin Problems Sleep Disorders Featured Topics See What Severe Psoriasis Looks Like 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Feeling Your Best When You Have MS Symptom Checker Health Concern On Your Mind? See what your medical symptoms could mean, and learn about possible conditions.Get Started Resources Second OpinionRead expert perspectives on popular health topics CommunitiesConnect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life Insurance GuideGet ready for changes to your health care coverage Physician DirectoryFind a doctor in your area Pain Coach Track your pain levels, triggers, and treatments. Set goals and get tips with our app. Download Find Information About: Drugs & Supplements Get information and reviews on prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, vitamins, and supplements. Search by name or medical condition. Find or Review a Drug Find or Review a Vitamin or Supplement Check for Drug Interactions Drugs Basics & Safety Commonly Abused Drugs What's Your Medication IQ? Taking Medications During Pregnancy Pill Identifier Having trouble identifying your pills? Enter the shape, color, or imprint of your prescription or OTC drug. Our pill identification tool will display pictures that you can compare to your pill.Get Started My Medicine Save your medicine, check interactions, sign up for FDA alerts, create family profiles and more.Get Started Drug News Vitamin B12 May Not Help Some Seniors Do Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? New Schizophrenia Drug Approved FDA: New, Stronger Warning for NSAIDs New Drug Approved for Heart Failure Mobile Drug Information App Drug, supplement, and vitamin information on the go. Download Featured Content Improve Your Concentration These Foods and Drinks Can Help Allergy App Fight allergies with daily forecasts, local alerts, and personalized tips. Download Living Healthy Centers View All Diet, Food & Fitness Diet & Weight Management Weight Loss & Obesity Food & Recipes Fitness & Exercise Beauty & Balance Healthy Beauty Health & Balance Sex & Relationships Oral Care Living Well Women's Health Men's Health Aging Well Teens Fit Kids Featured Topics Overcome Your Fear of Public Speaking New Clues Why Mosquitos Attack You Why Do You ... ACHOO!? Flash Fitness: Try the 7-Minute Workout Have Sensitive Teeth? See What to Do 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Featured Content What's That Rash? How to Treat Childhood Skin Problems Pregnancy App The big day is coming! Get organized and track baby's weekly development. Download Family and Pregnancy Centers Pregnancy Trying to Conceive First Trimester Second Trimester Third Trimester Parenting Newborn & Baby Children's Health Children's Vaccines Raising Fit Kids Pets Healthy Cats Healthy Dogs Featured Topics When Autism Grows Up Top Children's Hospitals Ranked Antidepressants Linked to Birth Defects When Are You Contagious? Which Birth Control Is Best for You? New Test May Help Spot Male Infertility News View All Why You Should Rethink That Drink Before Dinner New Clues Why Mosquitoes Find You Irresistible ArticleWomen: Too Much Sitting Ups Cancer Risk ArticlePopular Heartburn Meds Can Have Health Risks ArticleDo Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? WebMD Health Experts and Community Talk to health experts and other people like you in WebMD's Communities. It's a safe forum where you can create or participate in support groups and discussions about health topics that interest you. Second Opinion Read expert perspectives on popular health topics. Community Connect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life. Newsletters Sign up to receive WebMD's award-winning content delivered to your inbox.Sign Up Making Progress With Diabetes This content is selected and controlled by WebMD's editorial staff and is brought to you by Walgreens. Brought to you by: Diabetes Management in 10 Minutes or Less Reviewed by Michael Dansinger, MD on July 24, 2015 Do a Quick Body Scan After your shower each day, check your body from head to toe. Look for cuts, sores, blisters, and ingrown toenails. Don't forget the places where moisture can hide and germs can grow. Check under your arms and breasts, and between your legs and toes. Look extra closely at your feet. Use a mirror to help you see all over. If you have cuts or scrapes, treat them quickly. Also, take a moment to moisturize dry skin. Put Your Shoes by the Door Make it easy to slip them on, so you aren’t tempted to go outside barefoot. Make sure your slippers or house shoes are handy, too. Even indoors, you need to protect your feet. Before you put your shoes on, check to make sure there’s nothing in them that you aren’t expecting, like a pebble that could nick your skin. You can also change shoes during the day to relieve pressure spots on your feet. Prepare Emergency Snack Packs Put a few glucose tablets, or five or six pieces of hard candy, into baggies. Always carry a few when you go out in case you get low blood sugar, also called hypoglycemia. When blood sugar drops below 70 mg/dL, you can feel dizzy, hungry, or shaky. It can happen when you skip a meal, take too much diabetes medicine, or exercise harder than usual without eating. Check Your Blood Sugar Your doctor will tell you how often you should test yours based on your disease, treatment, and other things. If he tells you to check first thing in the morning, put your glucose monitor on your nightstand to remind you. When you wake up, your blood sugar should be somewhere between 80 mg/dL and 130 mg/dL. Within an hour or two after you start a meal, your target should be less than 180 mg/dL. Put a Tag on Your Gym Bag Does your doctor say you should check your blood sugar when you work out? Make a reminder for yourself. To figure out how exercise affects your levels, test before and after you work out. These checks can make it easier to avoid dangerous drops. Make Insulin Work for Your Lifestyle Let your doctor know if you’re always on the go and you don’t eat at regular times. She may recommend rapid-acting insulin or an insulin pump that delivers fast-acting insulin. It typically starts to affect your blood sugar within 5 to 15 minutes. It could make things easier. You can take this kind of insulin just before you eat. Or you can adjust the pump before meals or exercise. Power Up Your Diet Print the American Diabetes Association's list of 10 super foods. These foods have a low glycemic index, meaning they're less likely to affect your blood sugar than bread or other foods. Post the list on your refrigerator so you see it when you make your grocery list, plan meals, or look in the fridge for something to eat. Take a Sip High blood sugar causes your body to lose fluid, and your skin can get dry. Drink plenty of water and other liquids to help your skin stay supple and healthy. Exercise in Spurts It’s important to get at least 30 minutes of exercise a day to help manage your diabetes. Too busy? Break it up into three shorter spurts. Try 10 minutes of strength training in the morning. Play an active game with the family during the day, or take a brisk stroll at lunchtime. Then, walk your dog in the evening. This combo can help improve your blood sugar control and make heart disease less likely. Set Up a First-Aid Kit Diabetes can turn a minor injury into a major problem. Take a few minutes to gather these supplies: Hydrogen peroxide to clean wounds Triple-antibiotic cream to dress cuts and scrapes Sterile gauze to cover wounds If you have circulation problems or diabetes-related nerve problems (peripheral neuropathy), you may need to see a doctor or wound care center. Keep their phone numbers handy. Wear Your Medical Alert Jewelry Put your medical alert bracelet or pendant near your watch, rings, or other jewelry you wear every day. This may help you remember to wear it. Or keep it near your toothbrush or keys. It’s smart to wear it to let people know you have diabetes, just in case you need emergency medical care. Sources IMAGES PROVIDED BY: 1)    Lisa M. Robinson/Photonica 2)    Steve Pomberg/WebMD 3)    Steve Pomberg/WebMD 4)    Steve Pomberg/WebMD 5)    Steve Pomberg/WebMD 6)    Brian G. Green/National Geographic 7)    Images Studios/Uppercut Images 8)    Picturenet/Blend Images 9)    Stockbyte 10)  Steve Mason/Photodisc 11)  Steve Pomberg/WebMD REFERENCES: American Academy of Family Physicians, Family Doctor American Diabetes Association Cleveland Clinic Joslin Diabetes Center MannKind Corporation Mayo Clinic National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Disease This tool does not provide medical advice. See additional information THIS TOOL DOES NOT PROVIDE MEDICAL ADVICE. It is intended for general informational purposes only and does not address individual circumstances. It is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment and should not be relied on to make decisions about your health. Never ignore professional medical advice in seeking treatment because of something you have read on the WebMD Site. If you think you may have a medical emergency, immediately call your doctor or dial 911. © 2015 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. Further Reading Article Celebrate with Sweets the Smart Way Video Protect Your Feet Slideshow Diabetes Care in 10 Minutes or Less Article Keep Your Eyes Healthy Article New High-Tech Tools Article Exercise to Manage Blood Sugar Article Travel Plans? Make It Work More on Diabetes Video Myths and Facts About Insulin Article Take Care of Your Mouth Article Cholesterol Tests Article 10 Tips for Eating Well More Ways to Live Well Making Progress With Diabetes Ready to Take On Your Psoriasis? Living Better With Arthritis Managing Your Heart Disease Ease Your Chronic Pain Using Insurance and Medicare Help for Serious Heartburn Recommended for You ARTICLE 7 Myths and Facts About Vaccines SLIDESHOW 20 Tips for Better Sleep QUIZ Headache Facts and Myths SLIDESHOW How to Survive Cold and Flu Season QUIZ Is That Contagious? About About WebMD Contact Us Careers Newsletter Corporate WebMD Health Services Site Map Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility WebMD Network Medscape Medscape Reference MedicineNet eMedicineHealth RxList BootsWebMD First Aid WebMD Magazine WebMD Health Record WebMD Mobile Dictionary Our Apps WebMD Mobile WebMD App Pregnancy Baby Allergy Pain Coach WebMD Magazine Medscape TheHeart For Sponsors Advertise with Us Advertising Policy Sponsor Policy AdChoices ©2005-2016 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.