Skip to content Check Your Symptoms Find A Doctor Sign In Sign UpSubscribe My ProfileWelcome My Tools My WebMD Pages My Account Sign Out Health A-Z Drugs & Supplements Living Healthy Family & Pregnancy News & Experts Common Conditions View All ADD/ADHD Allergies Arthritis Cancer Cold, Flu & Cough Depression Diabetes Eye Health Heart Disease Heartburn/GERD Pain Management Sexual Conditions Skin Problems Sleep Disorders Featured Topics See What Severe Psoriasis Looks Like 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Feeling Your Best When You Have MS Symptom Checker Health Concern On Your Mind? See what your medical symptoms could mean, and learn about possible conditions.Get Started Resources Second OpinionRead expert perspectives on popular health topics CommunitiesConnect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life Insurance GuideGet ready for changes to your health care coverage Physician DirectoryFind a doctor in your area Pain Coach Track your pain levels, triggers, and treatments. Set goals and get tips with our app. Download Find Information About: Drugs & Supplements Get information and reviews on prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, vitamins, and supplements. Search by name or medical condition. Find or Review a Drug Find or Review a Vitamin or Supplement Check for Drug Interactions Drugs Basics & Safety Commonly Abused Drugs What's Your Medication IQ? Taking Medications During Pregnancy Pill Identifier Having trouble identifying your pills? Enter the shape, color, or imprint of your prescription or OTC drug. Our pill identification tool will display pictures that you can compare to your pill.Get Started My Medicine Save your medicine, check interactions, sign up for FDA alerts, create family profiles and more.Get Started Drug News Vitamin B12 May Not Help Some Seniors Do Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? New Schizophrenia Drug Approved FDA: New, Stronger Warning for NSAIDs New Drug Approved for Heart Failure Mobile Drug Information App Drug, supplement, and vitamin information on the go. Download Featured Content Improve Your Concentration These Foods and Drinks Can Help Allergy App Fight allergies with daily forecasts, local alerts, and personalized tips. Download Living Healthy Centers View All Diet, Food & Fitness Diet & Weight Management Weight Loss & Obesity Food & Recipes Fitness & Exercise Beauty & Balance Healthy Beauty Health & Balance Sex & Relationships Oral Care Living Well Women's Health Men's Health Aging Well Teens Fit Kids Featured Topics Overcome Your Fear of Public Speaking New Clues Why Mosquitos Attack You Why Do You ... ACHOO!? Flash Fitness: Try the 7-Minute Workout Have Sensitive Teeth? See What to Do 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Featured Content What's That Rash? How to Treat Childhood Skin Problems Pregnancy App The big day is coming! Get organized and track baby's weekly development. Download Family and Pregnancy Centers Pregnancy Trying to Conceive First Trimester Second Trimester Third Trimester Parenting Newborn & Baby Children's Health Children's Vaccines Raising Fit Kids Pets Healthy Cats Healthy Dogs Featured Topics When Autism Grows Up Top Children's Hospitals Ranked Antidepressants Linked to Birth Defects When Are You Contagious? Which Birth Control Is Best for You? New Test May Help Spot Male Infertility News View All Why You Should Rethink That Drink Before Dinner New Clues Why Mosquitoes Find You Irresistible ArticleWomen: Too Much Sitting Ups Cancer Risk ArticlePopular Heartburn Meds Can Have Health Risks ArticleDo Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? WebMD Health Experts and Community Talk to health experts and other people like you in WebMD's Communities. It's a safe forum where you can create or participate in support groups and discussions about health topics that interest you. Second Opinion Read expert perspectives on popular health topics. Community Connect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life. Newsletters Sign up to receive WebMD's award-winning content delivered to your inbox.Sign Up WebMD Home Diabetes Health Center Diabetes Feature Stories Email a Friend Print Article Diabetes Trends: Diabetes Symptoms Diabetic Diet Gestational Diabetes Health Check: Type 2 Diabetes Prediabetes Insulin Pump Diabetes Health Center Tools & Resources Is Your Diabetes Under Control? 10-Minute Diabetes Tips Diabetes: How to Count Carbs Diabetes Diet Dos and Don'ts Diabetes Menu Plan 4 Every Day Tips for Diabetes Font Size A A A The Best Diet Plans for Type 2 Diabetes By Barbara Brody WebMD Feature Reviewed by Kathleen M. Zelman, MPH, RD, LD Looking to lose weight and get your blood sugar under control? You have a lot of programs to choose from. "The more weight you lose, the more you'll improve your levels. But how you do it is largely up to you," says Michael Dansinger, MD, director of the Diabetes Reversal Program at Tufts Medical Center and nutrition doctor for NBC's The Biggest Loser. Still, some options are healthier and safer than others, so talk with your doctor or a registered dietitian before you get started. In the meantime, read up on some of the most popular plans. Best and Worst Meals for Diabetes-Savvy Dining 1. The DASH Diet Best known for keeping high blood pressure in check, the DASH (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension) diet is also an excellent choice for people with diabetes. "It's a plant-focused diet that's rich in fruit, vegetables, nuts, and legumes, as well as low-fat dairy, lean meat, fish, poultry, whole grains, and heart-healthy fats," says Sonya Angelone, RD, a consulting nutritionist and spokeswoman for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. "It's easy to follow, healthy for the whole family, and great for weight loss." The fact that it's been proven to lower blood pressure is a major bonus, adds Toby Smithson, RD, a certified diabetes educator and founder of DiabetesEveryDay.com. "Nearly two out of three people with diabetes also have hypertension," she says. 2. The Mediterranean Diet Lots of fresh, seasonal food, plenty of produce, heart-healthy olive oil, and a little wine make the Mediterranean Diet an enjoyable choice for people with diabetes, says Constance Brown-Riggs, RD, a certified diabetes educator and author of The African American Guide to Living Well With Diabetes. This style of eating can help with blood sugar control, as well as heart disease risk, according to the American Diabetes Association. Studies show that people are more likely to stick to this plan, “so it may help you avoid yo-yo dieting,” Smithson says. If you want to follow the Mediterranean Diet, Smithson suggests working with a dietitian. "Fifty percent of the foods in this diet come from the carbohydrate group. Even though they're healthy carbs, they need to be accounted for throughout the day." 1 | 2 | 3 Next Page > Continue reading below... Top Picks Garcinia Cambogia: Will It Lower My Blood Sugar? Images of Diabetic Retinopathy and Other Vision Problems Is Your Type 2 Diabetes Under Control? Dos and Don'ts: Diabetes and Alcohol Insulin: Questions for Your Doctor Best and Worst Foods for Diabetes Thank you for submitting your response. Good to Know is a new feature that allows members of the community to answer questions from WebMD experts, doctors, staff, and other community members. We're testing this new feature and we'd like your feedback. Further Reading: Slideshow: Best and Worst Meals When Dining With Diabetes Slideshow: What You Can Drink, Besides Water, When You Have Diabetes Quiz: What Should You Eat if You Have Diabetes? 5 Snacks to Stabilize Your Blood Sugars 7 Superfoods for Diabetes Quick and Healthy Meals for People With Diabetes Eating Well with Type 2 Diabetes See All Diabetes Diet Topics Diabetes Diet Home Medical Reference Features Video Slideshows & Images Blogs Quizzes Expert Commentary More From WebMD News Archive Diabetes Health Center General Diabetes Type 1 Diabetes Type 2 Diabetes Gestational Diabetes News Reference Slideshows Quizzes Videos Diabetes Guide 1 Overview & Facts 2 Symptoms & Causes 3 Diagnosis & Tests 4 Treatments 5 Living With 6 Complications Related to Diabetes Blood Glucose Tracker Eye Problems Insulin Living Healthy Metabolic Syndrome Oral Care Prediabetes More Related Topics Today on WebMD Type 2 Diabetes Symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and more. Muscle Moves for Diabetes 10 strength training exercises.   Avoiding Diabetes Complications 12 practical tips. Celebrities With Diabetes Stars living with type 1 or type 2.   Video Bariatric Surgery and Type 2 Diabetes Article Can Vinegar Treat Diabetes?   Tool Tips for Staying Healthy With Diabetes Video Benefits of Eating Low GI   Article Prediabetes: 7 Steps to Take Now Slideshow Type 2 Diabetes: What Is It?   Tool Track Carbs and Calories Slideshow What Your Feet Say About Your Health   WebMD Special Sections Managing Diabetes, Insulin, and High Blood Sugar Your Child and Type 1 Diabetes Type 2 Diabetes: Learn How New Treatments Can Help You Diabetes: Keeping Up With Your Active Life Control Blood Sugar: Diet, Exercise, and Insulin Tips Ready to Take Control of Your Diabetes? Diabetes and Your Skin Living with Diabetes Assessment Making Progress With Diabetes Diabetes: Keys to Better Daily Control Diabetes as You Age: Stay Active, Live Better Diabetes: Ready to Lower Your Blood Sugar? Health Solutions From Our Sponsors Exercise & OA Knee Pain RA and Pregnancy Lung Cancer Treatment Breast Cancer Advances IBS-C Symptoms? Facts About Skin Cancer Help with Painful Knees New Way to Take Insulin Diagnosed with Cancer? Melanoma Immunotherapy CML Treatment Plan Aortic Valve Stenosis? OA Doctor Answers Hodgkin Lymphoma Treatment Frequent Constipation? More From WebMD: Hemophilia Treatment|RA Basics|Psoriasis|MS Assessment|Hemophilia Questions|Anaphylaxis|ADHD in Children|Diabetes Diet|Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma |Breast Cancer|Toenail Fungus|Incontinence|COPD|Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials|Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis Find us on: URAC: Accredited Health Web Site AdChoices About WebMD Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Advertising Policy Accessibility Sponsor Policy Site Map Careers Contact Us Medscape Reference eMedicineHealth RxList Medscape MedicineNet BootsWebMD WebMD Corporate WebMD Health Services First Aid WebMD Magazine WebMD Health Record WebMD Mobile Newsletters Dictionary Physician Directory ©2005-2016 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.