Skip to content Check Your Symptoms Find A Doctor Sign In Sign UpSubscribe My ProfileWelcome My Tools My WebMD Pages My Account Sign Out Health A-Z Drugs & Supplements Living Healthy Family & Pregnancy News & Experts Common Conditions View All ADD/ADHD Allergies Arthritis Cancer Cold, Flu & Cough Depression Diabetes Eye Health Heart Disease Heartburn/GERD Pain Management Sexual Conditions Skin Problems Sleep Disorders Featured Topics See What Severe Psoriasis Looks Like 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Feeling Your Best When You Have MS Symptom Checker Health Concern On Your Mind? See what your medical symptoms could mean, and learn about possible conditions.Get Started Resources Second OpinionRead expert perspectives on popular health topics CommunitiesConnect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life Insurance GuideGet ready for changes to your health care coverage Physician DirectoryFind a doctor in your area Pain Coach Track your pain levels, triggers, and treatments. Set goals and get tips with our app. Download Find Information About: Drugs & Supplements Get information and reviews on prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, vitamins, and supplements. Search by name or medical condition. Find or Review a Drug Find or Review a Vitamin or Supplement Check for Drug Interactions Drugs Basics & Safety Commonly Abused Drugs What's Your Medication IQ? Taking Medications During Pregnancy Pill Identifier Having trouble identifying your pills? Enter the shape, color, or imprint of your prescription or OTC drug. Our pill identification tool will display pictures that you can compare to your pill.Get Started My Medicine Save your medicine, check interactions, sign up for FDA alerts, create family profiles and more.Get Started Drug News Vitamin B12 May Not Help Some Seniors Do Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? New Schizophrenia Drug Approved FDA: New, Stronger Warning for NSAIDs New Drug Approved for Heart Failure Mobile Drug Information App Drug, supplement, and vitamin information on the go. Download Featured Content Improve Your Concentration These Foods and Drinks Can Help Allergy App Fight allergies with daily forecasts, local alerts, and personalized tips. Download Living Healthy Centers View All Diet, Food & Fitness Diet & Weight Management Weight Loss & Obesity Food & Recipes Fitness & Exercise Beauty & Balance Healthy Beauty Health & Balance Sex & Relationships Oral Care Living Well Women's Health Men's Health Aging Well Teens Fit Kids Featured Topics Overcome Your Fear of Public Speaking New Clues Why Mosquitos Attack You Why Do You ... ACHOO!? Flash Fitness: Try the 7-Minute Workout Have Sensitive Teeth? See What to Do 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Featured Content What's That Rash? How to Treat Childhood Skin Problems Pregnancy App The big day is coming! Get organized and track baby's weekly development. Download Family and Pregnancy Centers Pregnancy Trying to Conceive First Trimester Second Trimester Third Trimester Parenting Newborn & Baby Children's Health Children's Vaccines Raising Fit Kids Pets Healthy Cats Healthy Dogs Featured Topics When Autism Grows Up Top Children's Hospitals Ranked Antidepressants Linked to Birth Defects When Are You Contagious? Which Birth Control Is Best for You? New Test May Help Spot Male Infertility News View All Why You Should Rethink That Drink Before Dinner New Clues Why Mosquitoes Find You Irresistible ArticleWomen: Too Much Sitting Ups Cancer Risk ArticlePopular Heartburn Meds Can Have Health Risks ArticleDo Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? WebMD Health Experts and Community Talk to health experts and other people like you in WebMD's Communities. It's a safe forum where you can create or participate in support groups and discussions about health topics that interest you. Second Opinion Read expert perspectives on popular health topics. Community Connect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life. Newsletters Sign up to receive WebMD's award-winning content delivered to your inbox.Sign Up Diabetes Friday, May 29, 2015 7 Superfoods for Diabetes By Anna Panzarella, RDN You hear the term in almost every health-food related article these days: “superfoods!” They’re often hyped as the latest and greatest nutritious powerhouses — overflowing with potent antioxidants or able to work wonders like zap fat or reverse diabetes. In short, we’re told that they are the foods we’ve all been missing! But are they really? It is no surprise that many of my clients come to me asking if they should start eating more of these sensationalized food items in order to lose weight or better manage their diabetes. In reality, while some of these spotlighted foods may be a great addition to a healthy, diabetes-friendly eating plan, they are by no means a cure-all solution. In fact, eating a variety of healthy, whole foods (most of which don’t need to be sought out from the depths of the Amazon or come with a hefty price tag) can be a much more effective way to get in all of those vital nutrients that help keep your diabetes, and overall health, in check. For me, the real “superfoods” are the tried-and-true basics that provide plenty of nutrients and fill you up without the sugar spikes: 1. Non-Starchy Vegetables: Non-starchy vegetables include dark, leafy greens, green beans and peppers (versus starchy veggies like corn and potatoes). Loading up at least a quarter of your plate with non-starchy veggies at each meal can help to fill you up on lots of fiber and fewer calories, which can aid in both blood glucose stabilization and weight reduction. Opting for more non-starchy veggies is also a great way to increase your intake of antioxidants and phytochemicals (a fancy name for healthy plant compounds) that help to ward off disease. Not a vegetable fan? Try adjusting your palate gradually by sneaking chopped or pureed veggies into foods you already love like soups or casseroles. Or bulk up that burger or sandwich with several slices of tomato and a handful of spinach. Explore different recipes that sound appetizing and you may start changing your perception of vegetables before you know it. 2. Wild Salmon or Tuna: Few animal proteins offer up the amount of healthy omega-3 fatty acids quite like wild salmon or tuna. These cold-water fish have been shown to reduce inflammation in the body and have major heart-protecting properties that are particularly important for staving off coronary heart disease, a high risk factor for those living with diabetes. The ADA recommends getting in fish at least two times per week to reap its ticker-protecting benefits. 3. Nuts: Similar to fatty-fish, nuts have an excellent nutrition profile that research suggests can both reduce HbA1c levels and lower amounts of LDL or “bad” cholesterol in the body. It only takes about 2 ounces of nuts per day to see these great effects. Try adding a tablespoon of chopped nuts to salads or oatmeal for an extra punch of protein and healthy fats. Or pair a handful of raw almonds or walnuts with a piece of fresh fruit for a great, mid-day snack that won’t send blood sugars surging. 4. Beans: Another great way to get a healthy dose of fiber, protein and complex carbohydrates is by incorporating more beans into your diet. Beans not only offer up a hefty variety of vitamins and minerals, but some studies have shown that eating more beans can help to keep blood sugars lowered and keep HbA1c levels in line. 5. Berries: Many of my clients with diabetes will shy away from eating berries and other fruit because of their natural sugar content, but incorporating a few servings per day of these antioxidant-packed morsels can help to satisfy a sweet tooth and have the bonus of fiber to prevent glucose from soaring. Add a handful of fresh or frozen berries to smoothies or yogurt for a great between-meal snack. 6. Plain Greek Yogurt: Greek yogurt is a very versatile ingredient that packs almost double the amount of protein of regular yogurt varieties and is typically lower in overall carbohydrates. Better yet, Greek yogurt is an excellent source of probiotics, also known as “friendly” gut bacteria that promote healthy digestion and may play a major role in the prevention and management of both Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes. Seek out yogurts with few ingredients and no added sugars or thickeners. If you do like your yogurts sweetened, try adding fresh or frozen fruit to avoid spiking blood sugars. It can also be used in baking and as a substitute for sour cream in savory dishes. 7. Whole Grains: Trying to cut back on your carbohydrate intake? It’s a good idea to reduce refined versions, but you may want to rethink completely eliminating high-fiber whole grains. Due to their complex carbohydrate make-up, whole grains break down slowly, releasing glucose into your bloodstream at a much more gradual pace than their processed counterparts. Plus, many whole grains contain valuable nutrients, such as magnesium, potassium or chromium, which has been shown to play an important role in reducing insulin resistance. There is no need to search far and wide for superfoods to help manage your diabetes and eat a healthy diet. True superfoods don’t have to be trendy or high-priced – they’re just nutrient-rich foods that make it easier for you to manage your diabetes. And the best news is many of these nutritious powerhouses may be found right in your neighborhood grocery store. Important: The opinions expressed in WebMD Second Opinion are solely those of the User, who may or may not have medical or scientific training. These opinions do not represent the opinions of WebMD. Second Opinion are... Expand The opinions expressed in WebMD Second Opinion are solely those of the User, who may or may not have medical or scientific training. These opinions do not represent the opinions of WebMD Second Opinion are not reviewed by a WebMD physician or any member of the WebMD editorial staff for accuracy, balance, objectivity, or any other reason except for compliance with our Terms and Conditions. Some of these opinions may contain information about treatments or uses of drug products that have not been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. WebMD does not endorse any specific product, service or treatment. Do not consider Second Opinion as medical advice. Never delay or disregard seeking professional medical advice from your doctor or other qualified healthcare provider because of something you have read on WebMD. You should always speak with your doctor before you start, stop, or change any prescribed part of your care plan or treatment. WebMD understands that reading individual, real-life experiences can be a helpful resource, but it is never a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment from a qualified health care provider. If you think you may have a medical emergency, call your doctor or dial 911 immediately. Hide Contributors Ilene Raymond Rush Ilene Raymond Rush is an award winning health and science freelance writer. Based on her own experiences with type 2 diabetes, she brings a personal take and a reporter’s eye to examine the best and newest methods of treating and controlling the disease. Anna Panzarella, RDN Anna Panzarella, RDN is an onsite wellness coach and coordinator for WebMD Health Services, where she provides one-on-one health coaching for Boeing’s employee wellness program in Seattle. She also conducts onsite wellness classes, prepares nutrition education materials for health coaching presentations and blogs about healthy eating. Topics Diagnosis Healthy Eating Lifestyle Living with Diabetes Research Testing Most Recent Diabetes Is Like ... a Dog? Read More Paleo for Type 2? Pros and Cons Read More It 'Takes 2' to Live With Type 2 Read More Newsletters Subscribe to free WebMD newsletters. WebMD Daily Subscribe WebMD Daily Subscribe to the WebMD Daily, and you'll get today's top health news and trending topics, and the latest and best information from WebMD. Men's Health Subscribe Men's Health Subscribe to the Men's Health newsletter for the latest on disease prevention, fitness, sex, nutrition, and more from WebMD. Women's Health Subscribe Women's Health Subscribe to the Women's Health newsletter for the latest on disease prevention, fitness, sex, diet, anti-aging, and more from WebMD. Submit By clicking Submit, I agree to the WebMD Terms & Conditions & Privacy Policy and understand that I may opt out of WebMD subscriptions at any time. You might also like FOOD & RECIPES Food & Fitness Planner BODY CALCULATOR Heart Rate Calculator BODY TRACKER Sleep Tracker Health Solutions From Our Sponsors Exercise & OA Knee Pain RA and Pregnancy Lung Cancer Treatment Breast Cancer Advances IBS-C Symptoms? Facts About Skin Cancer Help with Painful Knees New Way to Take Insulin Diagnosed with Cancer? Melanoma Immunotherapy CML Treatment Plan Aortic Valve Stenosis? OA Doctor Answers Hodgkin Lymphoma Treatment Frequent Constipation? More From WebMD: Hemophilia Treatment|RA Basics|Psoriasis|MS Assessment|Hemophilia Questions|Anaphylaxis|ADHD in Children|Diabetes Diet|Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma|Breast Cancer |Toenail Fungus|Incontinence|COPD|Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials|Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis Learn about WebMD Apps Find us on: Facebook Twitter View Site: Mobile | Desktop AdChoices AdChoices About WebMD | Advertise With Us | Terms of Use Privacy | Contact Us ©2005-2014 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information. Find us on: URAC: Accredited Health Web Site AdChoices About WebMD Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Advertising Policy Accessibility Sponsor Policy Site Map Careers Contact Us Medscape Reference eMedicineHealth RxList Medscape MedicineNet BootsWebMD WebMD Corporate WebMD Health Services First Aid WebMD Magazine WebMD Health Record WebMD Mobile Newsletters Dictionary Physician Directory ©2005-2016 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.