Skip to content Check Your Symptoms Find A Doctor Sign In Sign UpSubscribe My ProfileWelcome My Tools My WebMD Pages My Account Sign Out Health A-Z Drugs & Supplements Living Healthy Family & Pregnancy News & Experts Common Conditions View All ADD/ADHD Allergies Arthritis Cancer Cold, Flu & Cough Depression Diabetes Eye Health Heart Disease Heartburn/GERD Pain Management Sexual Conditions Skin Problems Sleep Disorders Featured Topics See What Severe Psoriasis Looks Like 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Feeling Your Best When You Have MS Symptom Checker Health Concern On Your Mind? See what your medical symptoms could mean, and learn about possible conditions.Get Started Resources Second OpinionRead expert perspectives on popular health topics CommunitiesConnect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life Insurance GuideGet ready for changes to your health care coverage Physician DirectoryFind a doctor in your area Pain Coach Track your pain levels, triggers, and treatments. Set goals and get tips with our app. Download Find Information About: Drugs & Supplements Get information and reviews on prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, vitamins, and supplements. Search by name or medical condition. Find or Review a Drug Find or Review a Vitamin or Supplement Check for Drug Interactions Drugs Basics & Safety Commonly Abused Drugs What's Your Medication IQ? Taking Medications During Pregnancy Pill Identifier Having trouble identifying your pills? Enter the shape, color, or imprint of your prescription or OTC drug. Our pill identification tool will display pictures that you can compare to your pill.Get Started My Medicine Save your medicine, check interactions, sign up for FDA alerts, create family profiles and more.Get Started Drug News Vitamin B12 May Not Help Some Seniors Do Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? New Schizophrenia Drug Approved FDA: New, Stronger Warning for NSAIDs New Drug Approved for Heart Failure Mobile Drug Information App Drug, supplement, and vitamin information on the go. Download Featured Content Improve Your Concentration These Foods and Drinks Can Help Allergy App Fight allergies with daily forecasts, local alerts, and personalized tips. Download Living Healthy Centers View All Diet, Food & Fitness Diet & Weight Management Weight Loss & Obesity Food & Recipes Fitness & Exercise Beauty & Balance Healthy Beauty Health & Balance Sex & Relationships Oral Care Living Well Women's Health Men's Health Aging Well Teens Fit Kids Featured Topics Overcome Your Fear of Public Speaking New Clues Why Mosquitos Attack You Why Do You ... ACHOO!? Flash Fitness: Try the 7-Minute Workout Have Sensitive Teeth? See What to Do 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Featured Content What's That Rash? How to Treat Childhood Skin Problems Pregnancy App The big day is coming! Get organized and track baby's weekly development. Download Family and Pregnancy Centers Pregnancy Trying to Conceive First Trimester Second Trimester Third Trimester Parenting Newborn & Baby Children's Health Children's Vaccines Raising Fit Kids Pets Healthy Cats Healthy Dogs Featured Topics When Autism Grows Up Top Children's Hospitals Ranked Antidepressants Linked to Birth Defects When Are You Contagious? Which Birth Control Is Best for You? New Test May Help Spot Male Infertility News View All Why You Should Rethink That Drink Before Dinner New Clues Why Mosquitoes Find You Irresistible ArticleWomen: Too Much Sitting Ups Cancer Risk ArticlePopular Heartburn Meds Can Have Health Risks ArticleDo Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? WebMD Health Experts and Community Talk to health experts and other people like you in WebMD's Communities. It's a safe forum where you can create or participate in support groups and discussions about health topics that interest you. Second Opinion Read expert perspectives on popular health topics. Community Connect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life. Newsletters Sign up to receive WebMD's award-winning content delivered to your inbox.Sign Up WebMD Home Heart Health Center Metabolic Syndrome Health Center Email a Friend Print Article Metabolic Syndrome Health Center Metabolic Syndrome 11 things you should know. Mouth Problems Why diabetes is no help. DASH Diet Learn how it can help your health.Slideshow Previous Slide Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Next Slide Metabolic Syndrome Metabolic syndrome is a group of risk factors -- high blood pressure, high blood sugar, high triglycerides, low HDL cholesterol, and belly fat -- that increases risk of heart disease and diabetes. Diet, exercise, and medications can help improve it. Select an Article What Is It? Are You at Risk? Health Problems Treatment Prevention Questions for Your Doctor Latest Headlines Brown Fat Transplants May Spur Weight Loss Mice given brown fat transplants lose weight and avoid the kinds of metabolic changes that lead to type 2 diabetes, even on high-fat diets, a new study shows. Read Full Article Top Stories DASH-Friendly Recipes High Blood Pressure: What Are the Symptoms? 6 Serious Symptoms You Shouldn't Ignore 6 Low-Carb Food Makeovers More Articles Tools & Resources Managing Your Diabetes Well? Ways to Help Hypertension What's Your Stroke Risk? 24 Foods to Help Your Heart Cholesterol Fact or Fiction? The Truth About Omega-3 WebMD Diabetes Community Community. Experts. Support. Discussions Dealing with Diabetes Type 2, Hypertension and Cholesterol Diabetic? Get Cholesterol and Blood Pressure Checked Will 1 in 3 Really Have Diabetes in 2050? Second Opinion Could You Have Metabolic Syndrome? Diabetes Wake-Up Call: No Regrets Is Saturated Fat a Big Health Problem? Community WebMD Diabetes Community: Support Group WebMD Cholesterol Management Community WebMD Hypertension & High Blood Pressure Community See All Communities Top Search Terms for Metabolic Syndrome 1 What Is Metabolic Syndrome? 2 Questions for Your Doctors 3 Metabolic Syndrome Treatment 4 Metabolic Syndrome Prevention 5 Causes of Obesity 6 Diet and Nutrition 7 Metabolic Syndrome Risk Factors 8 Serious Complications 9 Weight Loss Surgery 10 Exercise and Fitness Are You at Risk for Metabolic Syndrome Given how common metabolic syndrome is -- it's estimated that one out of four people meet the criteria -- everyone should be worried about their risk factors. After all, metabolic syndrome can dramatically increase your risk of serious health problems, such as diabetes, heart attacks, and strokes -- yet often people don't even know what it is. Metabolic syndrome is generally defined as a cluster of risk factors, including high blood sugar, extra abdominal fat, high blood pressure, and unhealthy cholesterol levels. Are You at Risk for Metabolic Syndrome Metabolic Syndrome Health Center What Is It? Are You at Risk? Health Problems Treatment Prevention Questions for Your Doctor Related to Metabolic Syndrome Cholesterol Management Diabetes Fitness & Exercise Hypertension My Medicine Stroke Find an Endocrinologist Today on WebMD Truth About Metabolism How much do you know? Metabolic Syndrome What is it?   Type 2 Diabetes 12 things that make it more likely. Treating Metabolic Syndrome What to do.   Slideshow 24 Foods That Can Save Your Heart Slideshow Quit Smoking Tips for the First Hard Days   QUIZ What’s Your Stroke Risk? SLIDESHOW See Simple Ways to Lower Blood Pressure   Slideshow Salt Shockers: Avoid These High-Sodium Surprises Quiz Cholesterol Fact or Fiction?   FAQ Metabolic Syndrome: 11 Things You Should Know Slideshow The Truth About Omega-3   WebMD Special Sections Super Foods for a Healthy Heart Health Solutions From Our Sponsors Exercise & OA Knee Pain RA and Pregnancy Lung Cancer Treatment Breast Cancer Advances IBS-C Symptoms? Facts About Skin Cancer Help with Painful Knees New Way to Take Insulin Diagnosed with Cancer? Melanoma Immunotherapy CML Treatment Plan Aortic Valve Stenosis? OA Doctor Answers Hodgkin Lymphoma Treatment Frequent Constipation? More From WebMD: Hemophilia Treatment|RA Basics|Psoriasis|MS Assessment|Hemophilia Questions|Anaphylaxis|ADHD in Children|Diabetes Diet|Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma |Breast Cancer|Toenail Fungus|Incontinence|COPD|Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials|Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis Find us on: URAC: Accredited Health Web Site AdChoices About WebMD Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Advertising Policy Accessibility Sponsor Policy Site Map Careers Contact Us Medscape Reference eMedicineHealth RxList Medscape MedicineNet BootsWebMD WebMD Corporate WebMD Health Services First Aid WebMD Magazine WebMD Health Record WebMD Mobile Newsletters Dictionary Physician Directory ©2005-2016 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.