U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Contact Us | Jobs at NIDDK | Get Email Updates Research and Funding for Scientists Current Funding Opportunities Open grant, contract, and cooperative agreement listings with closing dates and contacts Funded Grants & Grant History Application success rates, funding priorities, and trends Funding Process Tips for applicants; human subjects research information; grant review and management resources; and commonly used funding mechanisms, including diversity and small business programs Research Programs & Contacts Research program and staff contacts for researchers seeking funding Research Training & Career Development Grant programs for students, postdocs, and faculty Research at NIDDK Labs, faculty, and research opportunities located on NIDDK campuses in Maryland and Arizona Research Resources Protocols, repositories, mouse models, plasmids, and more Technology Advancement & Transfer Material transfer agreements, technology licensing, and public/private collaborations Meetings & Events Past and upcoming scientific meetings sponsored or hosted by NIDDK Health Information Health Topics Information about diabetes, digestive and liver diseases, kidney diseases, weight control and nutrition, urologic diseases, endocrine and metabolic diseases, and blood diseases La Información de la Salud en Español Enlaces a nuestra información en español sobre la diabetes, enfermedades digestivas y hígado, enfermedades renales, control de peso y la nutrición, enfermedades urológicas, enfermedades endocrinas y metabólicas, y enfermedades hematológicas Health Statistics Diabetes, digestive, kidney diseases, obesity, weight and more Healthy Moments Radio Broadcast Health tips from Dr. Griffin Rodgers, Director of the NIDDK Clinical Trials Current research studies and how you can volunteer For Health Care Professionals Patient and provider resources including select CEUs Community Outreach and Health Fairs Science-based information and tips for planning an outreach effort or community event Health Communication Programs Information, tools, and partnership opportunities to improve awareness, prevention, and management of NIDDK-related diseases and conditions FAQs General information about what NIDDK offers and other frequently asked questions Search for Health Information Búsqueda para la información de la salud Order Publications Health Image Library About NIDDK Meet the Director Director and deputy director biographies, Dr. Rodgers' vision statement, and the Director's Update newsletter Offices & Divisions Organizational structure and descriptions of offices and divisions Staff Directory Staff search and staff listed by offices and divisions Budget & Legislative Information President's budget request, congressional testimony, and other legislative information Strategic Plans & Reports Strategic plans, research progress reports, and statistical reports Advisory & Coordinating Committees NIDDK Advisory Council, Board of Scientific Advisors, and committees that coordinate research activities Research Areas Overview of NIDDK activities in each major research area, including research advances, research coordination, and health information Jobs at NIDDK How to find current openings and related resources FAQs Frequently asked questions about the Institute Visit Us Locations in Bethesda, Maryland and Phoenix, Arizona News NIDDK News News releases, research updates, grantee news, and newsletters For Reporters Media contacts, statistics, multimedia gallery, and more resources Calendar of Events Upcoming and past meetings Follow Us Social media, RSS feeds, and more Follow Us Health Information > Health Topics > Diabetes | ShareExternal Link Disclaimer Health Topics Anatomy Blood Diseases Diabetes Diagnostic Tests Diet & Nutrition Digestive Diseases Endocrine & Metabolic Diseases Health Topics A-Z Kidney Disease Liver Disease Urologic Diseases Weight Control & Healthy Living ​Personal Stories: Hope from NIDDK Clinical Research View personal stories​​​. Alternate Language URL Español Diabetes A-Z Page Content Diabetes topics are listed in alphabetical order. Select a letter to locate a disease or condition, diagnostic test, or anatomy topic. The National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) conducts, supports, and coordinates research on many of the most serious diseases affecting public health. The NIDDK cannot provide medical advice for individuals. The information provided here is informed by NIDDK research, reviewed by doctors, and provided to help you understand more about the diseases and conditions you or your loved ones may face. The NIDDK is part of the National Institutes of Health, the medical research agency of the United States.​​ ​ ​​​​ Page Image A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W  X Y  Z  A 4 Steps to Manage Your Diabetes for LifeThese four steps help people with diabetes understand, monitor, and manage their diabetes to help them stay healthy. This publication is excellent for people newly diagnosed with diabetes or who just want to learn more about controlling the disease. A Diabetes Friendly Meal Everyone Can Enjoy (PDF, 35.3 KB)Knowing what to serve and eat for dinner can sometimes be a challenge – especially for people with diabetes. Whether you are a person with diabetes or a family member or friend, you can prepare a meal that is healthy and tastes great. A Quick, Healthy Dish for People with Diabetes & Their FamiliesFollow these tips from the National Diabetes Education Program to make healthier meals that your whole family can enjoy. A1C, Sickle Cell Trait and Other Hemoglobin Variants Sickle Cell Trait and Other Hemoglobinopathies and Diabetes: Important Information for Providers About Low Blood GlucoseDescribes the types of diabetes medicines and their effects on blood glucose. Provides questions to ask providers, a personal medication record, and a guide for treating low blood glucose. Actos and Avandia (Thiazolidinediones)Describes the types of diabetes medicines and their effects on blood glucose. Provides questions to ask providers, a personal medication record, and a guide for treating low blood glucose. Adult-onset Diabetes Your Guide to Diabetes: Type 1 and Type 2 African Americans (from the Office of Minority Health)Provides statistics on African Americans with diabetes, including death rates, risk factors, and treatment. African Americans, Hemoglobin Variants, Sickle Cell Trait, and the A1C Test For People of African, Mediterranean, or Southeast Asian Heritage: Important Information about Diabetes Blood Tests Alimentación y la diabetes (Eating and Diabetes) What I need to know about Eating and Diabetes Alternative Devices for Taking InsulinDescribes devices for taking insulin in addition to needles and syringes. Describes the artificial pancreas and potential continuous glucose monitoring and insulin delivery systems. Am I at risk for Gestational Diabetes? Related: What I need to know about Gestational Diabetes Am I at Risk for Type 2 Diabetes? Taking Steps to Lower Your Risk of Getting DiabetesDefines diabetes and reviews signs and symptoms of the disease. Discusses the risk factors for developing type 2 diabetes and ways it can be prevented. Am I at Risk?If you have wondered or possibly been told that you are at risk for developing diabetes or that you have prediabetes, you should know that diabetes prevention is proven, possible, and powerful. Amaryl, DiaBeta, Diabinese, Glucotrol, Glucotrol XL, Glynase PresTab, Micronase, tolazamide, and tolbutamide (Sulfonylureas)Describes the types of diabetes medicines and their effects on blood glucose. Provides questions to ask providers, a personal medication record, and a guide for treating low blood glucose. American Indian/Alaska Native Fat and Calorie Counter (PDF, 188 KB)Use this Fat and Calorie Counter to help you keep track of the number of fat grams and calories in foods you may eat. American Indians and Alaska Natives (from the Office of Minority Health)Provides statistics on American Indians and Alaska Natives with diabetes, including death rates, risk factors, and treatment. American Indians, Alaska Natives and Diabetes I Can Lower MY Risk for Type 2 Diabetes: A Guide for American Indians Artificial Pancreas Alternative Devices for Taking Insulin Asian Americans and Pacific Islander Americans (from the Office of Minority Health)Provides statistics on Asian Americans and Pacific Islander Americans with diabetes, including death rates, risk factors, and treatment. Asian Americans, Hemoglobin Variants, Sickle Cell Trait, and the A1C Test For People of African, Mediterranean, or Southeast Asian Heritage: Important Information about Diabetes Blood Tests Autonomic Neuropathy Diabetic Neuropathies: The Nerve Damage of Diabetes Back to Top B Basal Insulin Alternative Devices for Taking Insulin Be Active When You Have DiabetesLanding page includes very easy-to-read (second- to third-grade reading level) materials help people with diabetes learn about the benefits of being physically active and ways to increase their activity level. Be Aware of Your Risk for Type 2 Diabetes (DOC, 1 MB)Share this article with local media and your constituents. Add your logo, name, mission, and contact information. Be Smart About Your Heart: Manage the ABCs of DiabetesWhile most people may think about diabetes-related health problems such as kidney disease, blindness and amputation, adults with diabetes are nearly two times more likely to die from heart disease or stroke than a person without diabetes. Be Sweet to Your Feet if You Have Diabetes (PDF, 93 KB)Taking care of your feet is very important for people with diabetes. Good foot care helps reduce your risk for serious foot problems that can lead to amputations. To decrease your risk of foot problems, learn to manage the ABCs of diabetes. Bedwetting What I need to know about My Child's Bedwetting Bladder Problems Sexual and Urologic Problems of Diabetes Blood Glucose and Diabetes Know Your Blood Sugar Numbers Blood Pressure High Blood Pressure and Kidney Disease Blood Sugar Know Your Blood Sugar Numbers Bolus Insulin Alternative Devices for Taking Insulin Byetta (Incretin Mimetic)Describes the types of diabetes medicines and their effects on blood glucose. Provides questions to ask providers, a personal medication record, and a guide for treating low blood glucose. Back to Top C Capacity Building for Diabetes Outreach: A Comprehensive Tool Kit for Organizations Serving Asian and Pacific Islander CommunitiesThis tool kit was designed to help community-based organizations and community health centers develop organizational capacity to deliver diabetes prevention and control programs within Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) communities. Carbohydrate Counting Carbs What I need to know about Carbohydrate Counting and Diabetes Causes of DiabetesDefines diabetes and discusses the causes of type 1, type 2, and gestational diabetes. Describes genetic, environmental, and other factors associated with the development of diabetes. Children and Diabetes When Your Child Is Diagnosed with Diabetes: Parents’ Questions for the Health Care Team Child's Bedwetting What I need to know about My Child's Bedwetting Choose More than 50 Ways to Prevent Type 2 DiabetesThis tip sheet helps African Americans at risk for type 2 diabetes find ways to move more, make healthy food choices, and track their progress with making lifestyle changes to lower their risk. ChooseMyPlate.gov Chronic Kidney Disease: What Does it Mean for Me?This brochure explains the basics of chronic kidney disease for people who were recently diagnosed. Chronic Kidney Disease-Mineral and Bone DisorderExplains how working kidneys contribute to healthy bones and why kidney disease can lead to bone problems. Covers diagnosis and treatment of chronic kidney disease. Collaborative Islet Transplant Registry Annual Report Comparing Medications for Adults With Type 2 Diabetes (from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality) (for health care professionals) (PDF, 655 KB) Comparing Tests for Diabetes and PrediabetesProvides a concise summary for health care providers of blood tests for diabetes and prediabetes, covering uses, technical features, and pros and cons of different tests. Continuous Glucose MonitoringDescribes devices that check blood glucose levels continuously. Describes the artificial pancreas and potential continuous glucose monitoring and insulin delivery systems. Cystic Fibrosis (Yesterday, Today & Tomorrow: NIH Research Timelines) (from the National Institutes of Health) Cystic Fibrosis and Diabetes (PDF, 732 KB) * (from the Cystic Fibrosis Association) Back to Top D Daily Diabetes RecordDaily Diabetes Record DCCT and EDIC: The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial and Follow-up Study Depression and Diabetes (from the National Institute of Mental Health) Devices for Taking Insulin Alternative Devices for Taking Insulin Diabetes and American Indians/Alaska Natives I Can Lower MY Risk for Type 2 Diabetes: A Guide for American Indians Diabetes and Dietary Supplements Diabetes and Kidney Disease Kidney Disease of Diabetes Diabetes and Pregnancy Frequently Asked Questions (from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Diabetes and Your Heart Infographic (English)Check out NDEP’s "Diabetes and Your Heart" infographic to learn about the ABCs of diabetes and how diabetes affects your heart. Share the infographic with your followers on Facebook and Twitter, or embed the infographic to your blog or website. Diabetes at Work: What's Depression Got to Do with It? Diabetes Causes Causes of Diabetes Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT)Describes the results of the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial, conducted by the NIDDK from 1983 to 1993, and the Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications study. Diabetes in America, 2nd EditionProvides comprehensive data on diabetes and its complications in the United States. Diabetes Medicines What I need to know about Diabetes Medicines Diabetes Mellitus Interagency Coordinating Committee (DMICC): Coordinating the Federal Investment in Diabetes Programs to Improve the Health of Americans (for health care professionals) Diabetes OrganizationsThe directory lists Government agencies and voluntary associations that provide diabetes information and resources available from the National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse. Diabetes Prevention for American Indians I Can Lower MY Risk for Type 2 Diabetes: A Guide for American Indians Diabetes Prevention ProgramThe Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) was a major multicenter clinical research study aimed at discovering whether modest weight loss through dietary changes and increased physical activity or treatment with the oral diabetes drug metformin (Glucophage) could prevent or delay the onset of type 2 diabetes in study participants. Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) Diabetes Resources Catalog With Special Resources for Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific IslandersAll of NDEP’s AANHPI diabetes education resources also are available on a convenient CD that allows you to search for relevant resources by disease status, language, and audience. CDs are available by contacting Judith McDivitt at JMcDivitt@CDC.gov Diabetes Resources for Older AdultsCaregivers and health care professionals of older adults may also find helpful tools to enhance their understanding of issues that affect this population. Diabetes Risk Factors: Do You Know Yours? (PDF, 121 KB)When it comes to understanding their personal risk for diabetes, it appears as if family history of diabetes is really what makes people take notice. Diabetes Statistics ​Sources for statistics on diabetes. Diabetes, Heart Disease, and StrokeDescribes the relationship between heart disease, stroke, and diabetes. Provides information about risk factors, prevention, types of heart disease, diagnosis, and treatment. Diabetic Eye Disease (from the National Eye Institute) Diabetic Foot Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your feet healthy Diabetic Kidney Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your kidneys healthy Diabetic Kidney DiseaseExplains how diabetes can lead to chronic kidney disease and reviews the symptoms, diagnosis, and treatments for diabetic kidney disease. This publication is also available in Spanish. Diabetic Neuropathies: The Nerve Damage of DiabetesReviews the causes and symptoms of diabetic neuropathy and explains the different types of neuropathies: peripheral, autonomic, proximal, and focal. Diagnosis and treatment are also discussed. Diabetic Retinopathy Diagnosis of Diabetes and PrediabetesContains general information about diabetes and prediabetes and how they are diagnosed. Discusses risk factors, recommendations for when to be tested, evaluation of body mass index, and steps to prevent or delay type 2 diabetes. Diagnostic Testing for Diabetes and Prediabetes (for Health Care Professionals) Comparing Tests for Diabetes and Prediabetes Diet and Diabetes What I need to know about Eating and Diabetes DMICC DMICC: Coordinating the Federal Investment in Diabetes Programs To Improve the Health of Americans Drug Information (from MedlinePlus) Back to Top E Eating Right When Money’s Tight for People with Diabetes (DOC, 327 KB)For people with diabetes, making healthy food choices is an important part of managing the disease. With the right tips and a little planning, you can eat healthy and stretch your food budget. ED Erectile Dysfunction EDIC DCCT and EDIC: The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial and Follow-up Study Exercise and Diabetes What I need to know about Physical Activity and Diabetes Back to Top F Facts About Diabetic Retinopathy (from the National Eye Institute) Family Health History and DiabetesFamily health history is an important risk factor for developing type 2 diabetes. Family History of Diabetes Am I at Risk for Type 2 Diabetes? Taking Steps to Lower Your Risk of Getting Diabetes Fasting Plasma Glucose (FPG) Comparing Tests for Diabetes and Prediabetes Financial Help for Diabetes CareReviews private health insurance, government health insurance, and other health care services for people with diabetes. Lists organizations and local resources that address various financial concerns. Five Facts About Diabetes (PDF, 88 KB)To help people with diabetes better understand how to manage the disease, read these five facts about diabetes. Five Questions to Ask Your Health Care Team About Your Type 2 Diabetes (PDF, 299 KB)Learn five questions you can ask your health care team to help you better to manage your diabetes and live a long, healthy life. Five Things Your Family Should Know About Your Diabetes (DOC, 310 KB)If you have diabetes, you know that living with diabetes is not easy. Getting support from family members can help. This article shares five things you can discuss with your family so they can provide support. Foot Care and Diabetes Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your feet healthy For People of African, Mediterranean, or Southeast Asian Heritage: Important Information about Diabetes Blood TestsDescribes hemoglobin variants how they can cause false results for the A1C test. Discusses how false results can affect diabetes diagnosis and care in people with hemoglobin variants. Fotonovela: Do it for them! But for you too. (¡Hazlo por ellos! Pero por ti también.)A bilingual (Spn/Eng) fotonovela featuring dramatic stories of Latinas talking to Latinas about preventing or delaying type 2 diabetes and being healthy for their children and themselves. FPG Comparing Tests for Diabetes and Prediabetes Back to Top G GAME PLAN for Preventing Type 2 DiabetesA Toolkit for Health Care Professionals and Teams GastroparesisDefines gastroparesis and describes the symptoms, diagnosis, complications, and treatment. Gestational Diabetes What I need to know about Gestational Diabetes Gestational Diabetes and Women (Podcast) (from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) Gestational Diabetes CausesDefines diabetes and discusses the causes of type 1, type 2, and gestational diabetes. Describes genetic, environmental, and other factors associated with the development of diabetes. Related: Causes of Diabetes Gestational Diabetes: Caring for Women During and After Pregnancy (from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality) (for health care professionals) (PDF, 219 KB) GlaucomaLinks to Facts About Diabetic Retinopathy from the National Eye Institute Glucophage, Glucophage XR, and Riomet (Biguanides)Describes the types of diabetes medicines and their effects on blood glucose. Provides questions to ask providers, a personal medication record, and a guide for treating low blood glucose. Glucose Meters (from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) Glucose Monitoring Continuous Glucose Monitoring Glucose Tolerance Test Diagnosis of Diabetes and Prediabetes Glycated Hemoglobin Glyset and Precose (Alpha-Glucosidase Inhibitors)Describes the types of diabetes medicines and their effects on blood glucose. Provides questions to ask providers, a personal medication record, and a guide for treating low blood glucose. Guiding Principles for the Care of People With or at Risk for DiabetesThese Guiding Principles aim to identify and synthesize areas of general agreement among existing guidelines to help guide primary care providers and health care teams to deliver quality care to adults with or at risk for diabetes. Back to Top H Have Diabetes. Will Travel.Whenever you travel, your diabetes comes along with you. While having diabetes should not stop you from traveling, you will need to do some careful planning. Here are some helpful diabetes travel tips. Heart Disease and Diabetes Diabetes, Heart Disease, and Stroke Help Your Family Prevent Kidney Failure Helping the Student with Diabetes Succeed: A Guide for School PersonnelThis comprehensive resource guide helps students with diabetes, their health care team, school staff, and parents work together to provide optimal diabetes management in the school setting. Hemoglobin Variants and the A1C Test For People of African, Mediterranean, or Southeast Asian Heritage: Important Information about Diabetes Blood Tests Hemoglobinopathies and the A1C Test Sickle Cell Trait and Other Hemoglobinopathies and Diabetes: Important Information for Providers Hispanics/Latinos (from the Office of Minority Health)Provides statistics on Hispanics and Latinos with diabetes, including death rates, risk factors, and treatment. How Diabetes Affects Children (Infographic)Check out NDEP?s ?How Diabetes Affects Children? infographic. Share the infographic with your followers on Facebook and Twitter, or embed the infographic to your blog or website. How Diabetes Affects Minority Groups InfographicCheck out NDEP’s “How Diabetes Affects Minority Groups” infographic. How Diabetes Affects Older Adults InfographicShare the infographic with your social media follows, embed it on your blog or website, or print it to use as a handout or poster. Hypertension and Diabetes Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your heart and blood vessels healthy Hypertension and Kidney Disease High Blood Pressure and Kidney Disease HypoglycemiaDefines and explains the causes, symptoms, prevention, and treatment of hypoglycemia. Focuses on controlling hypoglycemia in people with diabetes but also discusses hypoglycemia in people without diabetes. Back to Top I I Can Lower MY Risk for Type 2 Diabetes: A Guide for American IndiansTargeted to American Indians and defines diabetes and reviews the signs and symptoms. Discusses the risk factors type 2 diabetes and ways it can be prevented. Related: Am I at Risk for Type 2 Diabetes? Taking Steps to Lower Your Risk of Getting Diabetes IGA NephropathyDefines IgA nephropathy, an autoimmune disease that affects the kidneys. Discusses causes, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment. Impotence Erectile Dysfunction Incontinence in Men Urinary Incontinence in Men Incontinence in Women What I need to know about Bladder Control for Women Insulin (See What I need to know about Diabetes Medicines) What I need to know about Diabetes Medicines Insulin Infusion Systems Alternative Devices for Taking Insulin Insulin Pumps Alternative Devices for Taking Insulin Insulin Resistance and PrediabetesDefines insulin resistance and prediabetes and describes diagnosis. Lists ways to treat these conditions to help avoid developing diabetes. Insulin-dependent Diabetes Mellitus Your Guide to Diabetes: Type 1 and Type 2 Insurance Financial Help for Diabetes Care Islet Transplantation Pancreatic Islet Transplantation It’s Never Too Early…To Prevent DiabetesIf you had gestational diabetes when you were pregnant, you and your child have a lifelong risk for getting diabetes. Back to Top J Januvia (DPP-4-Inhibitor)Describes the types of diabetes medicines and their effects on blood glucose. Provides questions to ask providers, a personal medication record, and a guide for treating low blood glucose. Back to Top K Ketones Your Guide to Diabetes: Type 1 and Type 2 Kidney Disease of DiabetesExplains kidney disease, including causes and its progression to kidney failure. Highlights the findings of the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial as they relate to kidney disease. Kidney Disease: What African Americans Need to KnowThis brochure highlights key facts about the impact of kidney disease on African Americans and statistics related to kidney disease in the United States. Kidney Problems and Diabetes Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your kidneys healthy Know Your Blood Sugar NumbersLearn more about the importance of knowing your blood sugar numbers. This publication contains information on the A1C test, self-monitoring blood sugar, and working with a health care team to set blood sugar targets and reach them. Know Your Blood Sugar Numbers Back to Top L Laboratory Tests Comparing Tests for Diabetes and Prediabetes Large Print Diabetes Publications Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your diabetes under control Latinos/Hispanics and Diabetes Living a Balanced Life with Diabetes: A Toolkit Addressing Psychosocial Issues for American Indian and Alaska Native PeoplesA compilation of resources for American Indian and Alaska Native Peoples about diabetes. Resources include materials about general nutrition, psychosocial issues, substance abuse prevention, tobacco use, and a list of books on the subject. Living With DiabetesIf you are living with diabetes or have a loved with the disease, it's important to work together to manage diabetes to stay healthy and prevent complications. Managing diabetes is not easy, but support from family members can make it much easier. Low Blood Glucose Hypoglycemia Low VisionLinks to Facts About Diabetic Retinopathy from the National Eye Institute Back to Top M Managing Cystic Fibrosis-Related Diabetes (from the Cystic Fibrosis Association) (PDF, 732 KB) * Managing Gestational Diabetes: A Patient's Guide to a Healthy Pregnancy (from the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Meal Planning and Diabetes What I need to know about Eating and Diabetes Meal Planning Using Carbohydrate Counting (from the American Diabetes Association) Medical Therapies for DiabetesComplementary and Alternative Medical Therapies for Diabetes - National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse Medications (from MedlinePlus) Medicines for Diabetes What I need to know about Diabetes Medicines Medicines for Type 2 Diabetes: A Review of the Research for Adults (from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality) (PDF, 337 KB) Metabolic Syndrome Insulin Resistance and Prediabetes Methods for Delivering Insulin and Monitoring Blood Sugar: A Review of the Research for Children, Teens, and Adults With Diabetes (from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality) MODY Monogenic Forms of Diabetes: Neonatal Diabetes Mellitus and Maturity-onset Diabetes of the Young Monitor Your DiabetesDescribes the tests someone with diabetes can take to help improve their blood glucose targets to help prevent diabetes problems. Monogenic Forms of Diabetes: Neonatal Diabetes Mellitus and Maturity-onset Diabetes of the YoungDescribes rare forms of diabetes that result from mutations in a single gene. Discusses genetic testing and counseling. Provides information in tabular form for health care providers. MOVIMIENTO POR SU VIDA CD/DVDThis lively music CD helps Hispanics and Latinos incorporate more movement into their lives. It features six original songs with empowering messages and strong Latin rhythms that urge listeners to move more. It is a fun way to show how movement can help prevent and manage diabetes. Use this music CD to encourage individuals or groups to exercise. BONUS FEATURE: this CD also contains a music video, Movimiento por su vida that can be viewed on a DVD player. My Diabetes MedicinesDescribes the types of diabetes medicines and their effects on blood glucose. Provides questions to ask providers, a personal medication record, and a guide for treating low blood glucose. Back to Top N National Diabetes Education Program's 15th AnniversaryThe NDEP is a unique partnership that brings together Federal agencies and a varied and diverse group of organizations and individuals addressing diabetes concerns. National Diabetes Statistics Report, 2014 (from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)Provides up-to-date scientific data and statistics on diabetes and its burden in the United States. National Diabetes Statistics, 2014 (PDF, 5.44 MB)Provides statistics about diabetes in the United States. Neonatal Diabetes Monogenic Forms of Diabetes: Neonatal Diabetes Mellitus and Maturity-onset Diabetes of the Young Neonatal Forms of Diabetes Monogenic Forms of Diabetes: Neonatal Diabetes Mellitus and Maturity-onset Diabetes of the Young Nerve Problems and Diabetes Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your nervous system healthy Neuropathy Diabetic Neuropathies: The Nerve Damage of Diabetes New Beginnings: A Discussion Guide for Living Well with DiabetesA resource to help group leaders lead discussions about the emotional side of living with diabetes, and help people with diabetes identify family and social support needs and develop goal setting, positive coping and problem solving skills. Next Steps After Your Diagnosis: Finding Information and Support (from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality) NIH Consensus Development Conference: Diagnosing Gestational Diabetes Mellitus Nutrition What I need to know about Eating and Diabetes Back to Top O OGTT Comparing Tests for Diabetes and Prediabetes Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT) Comparing Tests for Diabetes and Prediabetes Organizations, Directory of DiabetesThe directory lists Government agencies and voluntary associations that provide diabetes information and resources available from the National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse. Overactive Bladder What I need to know about Bladder Control for Women Back to Top P Pancreatic Islet TransplantationDefines pancreatic islets and describes the process of pancreatic islet transplantation, an experimental procedure. Also discusses the risks and benefits of transplantation. PCOS Peripheral Neuropathy Diabetic Neuropathies: The Nerve Damage of Diabetes Pills for Diabetes What I need to know about Diabetes Medicines Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) (from the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development) Power to Prevent: A Family Lifestyle Approach to Diabetes PreventionPower To Prevent includes effective, step-by-step lesson plans to help African Americans with or at risk for diabetes to take control of their eating habits and engage in a more physically active lifestyle. Prandin (Meglitinide)Describes the types of diabetes medicines and their effects on blood glucose. Provides questions to ask providers, a personal medication record, and a guide for treating low blood glucose. Preconception Care What I need to know about Preparing for Pregnancy if I Have Diabetes Pregnancy and Diabetes What I need to know about Preparing for Pregnancy if I Have Diabetes Prevent Diabetes ProblemsDescribes steps to prevent diabetes problems with the heart, blood vessels, eyes, kidneys, and nerves. Prevent Diabetes Problems Series Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your diabetes under control Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your diabetes under controlHelps patients learn about blood glucose management. Includes a comprehensive chart to record blood glucose levels and medicines and valuable checklists for health care visits. Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your eyes healthyDefines and illustrates the different parts of the eye and the various forms of eye damage that can result from diabetes. Explains how eye damage from diabetes can be prevented or delayed. Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your feet healthyDiscusses how diabetes can lead to foot and skin problems. Illustrates the different foot problems that can occur. Provides tips about how people can prevent or delay foot and skin problems. This publication is also available in Spanish. Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your heart and blood vessels healthyDescribes the role of the heart and blood vessels. Details the damage diabetes can cause to the heart and blood vessels and explains how to prevent and treat these complications. This publication is also available in Spanish. Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your kidneys healthyExplains kidney damage as a complication of diabetes and how kidney disease can be prevented, diagnosed, and treated. Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your mouth healthyExplains the causes, symptoms, diagnosis, complications, and treatment of diabetes-related problems in the mouth in an easy-to-read format. This publication is also available in Spanish. Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your nervous system healthyDescribes the various parts of the nervous system and explains how uncontrolled diabetes can damage these individual components. Also explains how to prevent and treat these problems. Preventing Diabetes for Our Future and Theirs: The Diabetes Epidemic Among Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders (DOC, 321 KB)Did you know that your heritage may increase your chances of for getting type 2 diabetes? The good news is that it is possible to lower your chance for getting type 2 diabetes. Preventing Type 2 Diabetes When You're On-the-Go (DOC, 313 KB)If you’re at risk for type 2 diabetes, plan how to fit exercise and healthy eating into your travel plans. With a little effort, you can stay healthy while you’re on the road. Promoting Medication Adherence in DiabetesResources to support health care professionals in promoting medication adherence among their patients and within their teams. Promotional Tools for Managing DiabetesTake advantage of the diabetes education resources and tools for Managing Diabetes. Pumps Alternative Devices for Taking Insulin Back to Top Q Questions and Answers About DiabetesThis fact sheet answers key questions about diabetes and kidney health. Questions and Answers About the Kidneys and Kidney DiseaseThis fact sheet answers important questions about the risk factors for kidney disease, testing, and what people can do to protect their kidneys. Back to Top R Reach Out to Loved Ones Living with Diabetes (PDF, 157 KB)People with diabetes need to eat right, stay active, and take their medication. They need to keep their blood glucose, blood pressure, and cholesterol under control. And that’s on top of handling all the other things in life! Red Blood Cell Variants and the A1C Test For People of African, Mediterranean, or Southeast Asian Heritage: Important Information about Diabetes Blood Tests Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes Am I at Risk for Type 2 Diabetes? Taking Steps to Lower Your Risk of Getting Diabetes Back to Top S School Guide Promotional ToolsUse these promotional tools to promote effective diabetes management in school settings. Self-Monitoring Your Guide to Diabetes: Type 1 and Type 2 Self-monitoring of Blood Glucose (SMBG) Know Your Blood Sugar Numbers Sexual and Urologic Problems of DiabetesDescribes the sexual and urologic problems that men and women with diabetes may experience. Provides information about causes, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment. Sick Days Your Guide to Diabetes: Type 1 and Type 2 Sickle Cell Trait and Other Hemoglobinopathies and Diabetes: Important Information for ProvidersExplains how the A1C test can lead to misdiagnosis, overtreatment, or undertreatment of diabetes in people with hemoglobinopathies. Explains when to suspect a patient has a variant. Sickle Cell Trait and the A1C Test: Information for Patients For People of African, Mediterranean, or Southeast Asian Heritage: Important Information about Diabetes Blood Tests Small Steps, Big Rewards. Prevent Type 2 Diabetes For Life. Campaign OverviewMillions of Americans are at high risk for diabetes, a serious and costly disease that has reached epidemic proportions in the past 10 years. The good news: type 2 diabetes can be prevented or delayed. Small Steps. Big Rewards. Your GAME PLAN to Prevent Type 2 Diabetes: Information for PatientsThis three-booklet package helps people assess their risk for developing diabetes and implement a program to prevent or delay the onset of the disease and it includes an activity tracker and a fat and calorie counter. SMBG Know Your Blood Sugar Numbers Spanish, Diabetes PublicationsPágina de lista de recursos de la A a la Z proveída del Centro Coordinador Nacional de Información sobre la Diabetes. Starch Starlix (D-Phenylalanine Derivative)Describes the types of diabetes medicines and their effects on blood glucose. Provides questions to ask providers, a personal medication record, and a guide for treating low blood glucose. Statistics about DiabetesSources for statistics on diabetes. Step by step: Moving towards prevention of Type 2 Diabetes ​This lively music CD helps Hispanics and Latinos incorporate more movement into their lives. It features six original songs with empowering messages and strong Latin rhythms that urge listeners to move more. It is a fun way to show how movement can help prevent and manage diabetes. Stomach Nerve Damage Gastroparesis Stress Incontinence What I need to know about Bladder Control for Women Sugar (Dietary) What I need to know about Eating and Diabetes Symlin (Amylin Mimetic)Describes the types of diabetes medicines and their effects on blood glucose. Provides questions to ask providers, a personal medication record, and a guide for treating low blood glucose. Syndrome X Insulin Resistance and Prediabetes Back to Top T Take Care of Your Diabetes during Special Times or EventsDescribes how someone with diabetes can be prepared during travel, work or school, pregnancy, natural disasters, and illness. Take Care of Your Diabetes Each DayDescribes how to follow your healthy eating plan, be physically active, take medicines as prescribed, and monitor diabetes. Take Care of Your Feet for a LifetimeIf you have diabetes, your feet need special attention. This booklet helps you care for your feet and provides tips to prevent serious foot problems. Take Small Steps to Prevent Type 2 DiabetesWhen you take steps to prevent diabetes, you will also lower your risk for possible complications of diabetes such as heart disease, stroke, kidney disease, blindness, nerve damage, and other health problems. Taking Care of Your Diabetes Means Taking Care of Your Heart (Tip Sheet)This tip sheet encourages patients with diabetes to work with their health care team to set goals to manage A1C, blood pressure, and cholesterol to prevent heart problems. It also has a record form to track diabetes numbers. Tasty Recipes for People with Diabetes and Their FamiliesTasty Recipes is filled with recipes specifically designed for Latin Americans. This booklet was designed to dispel misunderstandings about healthy eating and teach Hispanics/Latinos how to adopt a tasty but nutritional meal plan that maintains the cultural uniqueness of their food. Teens and Diabetes Youth and Teens Teeth and Gums and Diabetes Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your mouth healthy Tests, Diabetes Comparing Tests for Diabetes and Prediabetes The 411 on Healthy Eating (PDF, 33 KB)Although there are lots of diet choices and weight-loss plans available, taking small steps to reduce fat and caloric intake and becoming more physically active is most likely to lead to successful weight loss. The A1C Test and DiabetesDefines and explains the A1C diabetes blood test. Discusses using the test for diagnosis of diabetes and prediabetes and monitoring of glucose levels in people with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. The Facts About DiabetesView facts, statistics, and infographics About Diabetes. The Road to Health ToolkitMaterials designed for African Americans and Hispanics/Latinos at risk for type 2 diabetes to start a community outreach program reinforcing the message that type 2 diabetes can be delayed or prevented. Therapeutic Management, Delivery, and Postpartum Risk Assessment and Screening in Gestational Diabetes (from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality) (for health care professionals) Tips for Kids with Type 2 Diabetes: Be Active Tips for Kids with Type 2 Diabetes: Stay at a Healthy Weight Tips for Kids with Type 2 Diabetes: What is Diabetes? Tips for Kids: Eating Healthy FoodsThis colorful, easy-to-read, reproducible tip sheet contains the basics about managing type 2 diabetes for children and their families. It also includes a list of resources where you can get more information for children. Tips for Teens with Diabetes: Be ActiveThis colorful, easy-to-read, reproducible tip sheet contains the basics about managing type 2 diabetes for children and their families. It also includes a list of resources where you can get more information for children. Tips for Teens with Diabetes: Dealing With the Ups and Downs of DiabetesFeel good about yourself. Get help to deal with the ups and downs of diabetes. Seek support from other teens and take action to manage your diabetes - one step at a time. Tips for Teens with Diabetes: Make Healthy Food ChoicesMake healthy food choices to help reach your weight loss goal. There are many weight loss plans from which to choose. Tips for Teens: Lower Your Risk for Type 2 DiabetesIf you have a family history of diabetes, or you’ve been told by a health care professional that you’re at risk for type 2 diabetes, you can prevent or delay the onset of the disease by losing 5 to 7 percent of your body weight. Transient Diabetes in Newborns Monogenic Forms of Diabetes: Neonatal Diabetes Mellitus and Maturity-onset Diabetes of the Young Transitions: From Pediatric to Adult Health CareTake advantage of the diabetes education resources and tools designed especially for health care professionals, business professionals engaged in planning and conducting business health strategies, and school personnel. Transplantation of Pancreatic Islet Cells Pancreatic Islet Transplantation Two Reasons I Find Time to Prevent Diabetes: My Future and TheirsThis tip sheet can help Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders at risk for type 2 diabetes move more and eat less to lower their risk for diabetes. Type 1 Diabetes Your Guide to Diabetes: Type 1 and Type 2 Type 1 Diabetes CausesDefines diabetes and discusses the causes of type 1, type 2, and gestational diabetes. Describes genetic, environmental, and other factors associated with the development of diabetes. Related: Causes of Diabetes Type 2 Diabetes Your Guide to Diabetes: Type 1 and Type 2 Type 2 Diabetes CausesDefines diabetes and discusses the causes of type 1, type 2, and gestational diabetes. Describes genetic, environmental, and other factors associated with the development of diabetes. Related: Causes of Diabetes Types of InsulinDescribes the types of diabetes medicines and their effects on blood glucose. Provides questions to ask providers, a personal medication record, and a guide for treating low blood glucose. Back to Top U Update on NIH’s Latest Clinical Research for Diabetes Prevention, Management and Obesity: Applying the findings from NIH’s Look AHEAD and Diabetes Prevention Program clinical trials (PDF, 3.34 MB)Update on NIH’s Latest Clinical Research for Diabetes Prevention, Management and Obesity: Applying the findings from NIH’s Look AHEAD and Diabetes Prevention Program clinical trials Update on NIH’s Latest Clinical Research for Diabetes Prevention, Management and Obesity: Applying the Findings from NIH’s Look AHEAD and Diabetes Prevention Program Clinical Trials November 12, 2015 (PDF, 378 KB)Update on NIH’s Latest Clinical Research for Diabetes Prevention, Management and Obesity: Applying the Findings from NIH’s Look AHEAD and Diabetes Prevention Program Clinical Trials November 12, 2015 Urinary Incontinence in ChildrenDiscusses the causes of nighttime and daytime incontinence in children, describes medical and behavioral treatments, and lists resources for additional information. Urinary Incontinence in MenExplains how nerve problems, prostate enlargement, and treatments for prostate cancer can all cause urinary incontinence in men. Discusses causes, diagnosis, and available treatments. Urinary Incontinence in WomenDiscusses the anatomy of the female urinary system, defines the major types of incontinence in women, describes treatments, and lists resources for additional information. Back to Top V Vesicoureteral RefluxExplains how urine may reflux, or flow backward, from the bladder to the kidneys. Describes tests and treatment for this condition. Vision Problems Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your eyes healthy Back to Top W We Have the Power to Prevent DiabetesTips to help American Indians and Alaska Natives at risk for type 2 diabetes move more and eat less to lower their risk for diabetes. What I need to know about Bladder Control for WomenProvides a comprehensive introduction to the causes, symptoms, and treatments for bladder control problems in women. What I need to know about Carbohydrate Counting and DiabetesExplains carbohydrate counting, a meal planning tool for people with diabetes to help control blood glucose levels. What I need to know about Diabetes MedicinesDescribes the types of diabetes medicines and their effects on blood glucose. Provides questions to ask providers, a personal medication record, and a guide for treating low blood glucose. What I Need to Know about Diabetes Medicines- Combination DiabetesDescribes the types of diabetes medicines and their effects on blood glucose. Provides questions to ask providers, a personal medication record, and a guide for treating low blood glucose. What I need to know about Eating and DiabetesProvides an easy-to-read guide about the basics of meal planning for people with diabetes. Reviews nutrition basics, including what, when, and how much a person with diabetes should eat. What I need to know about Erectile DysfunctionDescribes the physiology of erection and the causes, diagnosis, and treatment of erectile dysfunction. What I need to know about Gestational DiabetesDefines gestational diabetes, explains the causes and diagnosis, and outlines treatment. Includes strategies for preventing or delaying type 2 diabetes later in life. This publication is also available in Spanish. What I need to know about My Child's BedwettingAn easy-to-read booklet for parents. Explains why some children take longer to learn how to stay dry at night. Describes options for helping a child develop nighttime bladder control. What I need to know about Physical Activity and DiabetesDescribes the benefits of physical activity and precautions for people with diabetes. Explains the types of activity and how to begin a program. Provides referrals to other resources. This publication is also available in Spanish. What I need to know about Preparing for Pregnancy if I Have DiabetesExplains in an easy-to-read format why and how women with diabetes should take care of themselves before, during, and after pregnancy. This publication is also available in Spanish. Working Together to Manage Diabetes: A Toolkit for Pharmacy, Podiatry, Optometry, and Dentistry (PPOD)Each section of the PPOD Guide provides a “quick course” on that health care specialty and its relation to diabetes. Because each section is written for professionals outside of that specialty, all team members who might care for a person with diabetes can collaborate and make cross-disciplinary treatment referrals. Inside the PPOD Guide, you will find: An introduction to team care, Tips on communicating with patients, Sections in each of the four PPOD areas, Resources and links to other PPOD-related resources and organizations. Back to Top Y You Are the Heart of Your Family...Take Care of It. (Usted es el corazón de la familia...cuide su corazón) Tip Sheet ​This bilingual (Spanish and English) tip sheet explains the link between diabetes and heart disease for Hispanics/ Latinos. Your Diabetes Care RecordsProvides charts for recording important information to discuss at each doctor’s visit. Your Guide to Diabetes: Type 1 and Type 2Provides comprehensive information in a generously illustrated format for people with type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Provides action steps for people who take insulin and for those who do not. This publication is also available in Spanish. Your Guide to Physical Activity and Your Heart (from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute) Youth and TeensAbout 208,000 young people under 20 years of age have diagnosed diabetes. Most of them have type 1 diabetes. Back to Top NIH...Turning Discovery Into Health® Research & Funding for Scientists Current Funding Opportunities Funded Grants & Grant History Funding Process Research Programs & Contacts Research Training & Career Development Research at NIDDK Research Resources Technology Advancement & Transfer Meetings & Events Health Information Health Topics La Información de la Salud en Español Health Statistics Healthy Moments Radio Broadcast Clinical Trials For Health Care Professionals Community Outreach and Health Fairs Health Communication Programs FAQs About NIDDK Meet the Director Offices & Divisions Staff Directory Budget & Legislative Information Strategic Plans & Reports Advisory & Coordinating Committees Research Areas Jobs at NIDDK FAQs Visit Us News NIDDK News For Reporters Calendar of Events Follow Us Contact Us Get Email Updates Twitter Facebook Follow Us Privacy Policy | Freedom of Information Act | Accessibility | Disclaimers | Copyright | Sitemap | For Staff Only | Jobs at NIDDK The National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, Bethesda, MD 20892-2560, Telephone: 301-496-3583 Contact the NIDDK Health Information Center Phone: 1-800-860-8747 | TTY: 1-866-569-1162 | Email: healthinfo@niddk.nih.gov | Hours: 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Eastern time, M-F