Skip to content Check Your Symptoms Find A Doctor Sign In Sign UpSubscribe My ProfileWelcome My Tools My WebMD Pages My Account Sign Out Health A-Z Drugs & Supplements Living Healthy Family & Pregnancy News & Experts Common Conditions View All ADD/ADHD Allergies Arthritis Cancer Cold, Flu & Cough Depression Diabetes Eye Health Heart Disease Heartburn/GERD Pain Management Sexual Conditions Skin Problems Sleep Disorders Featured Topics See What Severe Psoriasis Looks Like 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Feeling Your Best When You Have MS Symptom Checker Health Concern On Your Mind? See what your medical symptoms could mean, and learn about possible conditions.Get Started Resources Second OpinionRead expert perspectives on popular health topics CommunitiesConnect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life Insurance GuideGet ready for changes to your health care coverage Physician DirectoryFind a doctor in your area Pain Coach Track your pain levels, triggers, and treatments. Set goals and get tips with our app. Download Find Information About: Drugs & Supplements Get information and reviews on prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, vitamins, and supplements. Search by name or medical condition. Find or Review a Drug Find or Review a Vitamin or Supplement Check for Drug Interactions Drugs Basics & Safety Commonly Abused Drugs What's Your Medication IQ? Taking Medications During Pregnancy Pill Identifier Having trouble identifying your pills? Enter the shape, color, or imprint of your prescription or OTC drug. Our pill identification tool will display pictures that you can compare to your pill.Get Started My Medicine Save your medicine, check interactions, sign up for FDA alerts, create family profiles and more.Get Started Drug News Vitamin B12 May Not Help Some Seniors Do Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? New Schizophrenia Drug Approved FDA: New, Stronger Warning for NSAIDs New Drug Approved for Heart Failure Mobile Drug Information App Drug, supplement, and vitamin information on the go. Download Featured Content Improve Your Concentration These Foods and Drinks Can Help Allergy App Fight allergies with daily forecasts, local alerts, and personalized tips. Download Living Healthy Centers View All Diet, Food & Fitness Diet & Weight Management Weight Loss & Obesity Food & Recipes Fitness & Exercise Beauty & Balance Healthy Beauty Health & Balance Sex & Relationships Oral Care Living Well Women's Health Men's Health Aging Well Teens Fit Kids Featured Topics Overcome Your Fear of Public Speaking New Clues Why Mosquitos Attack You Why Do You ... ACHOO!? Flash Fitness: Try the 7-Minute Workout Have Sensitive Teeth? See What to Do 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Featured Content What's That Rash? How to Treat Childhood Skin Problems Pregnancy App The big day is coming! Get organized and track baby's weekly development. Download Family and Pregnancy Centers Pregnancy Trying to Conceive First Trimester Second Trimester Third Trimester Parenting Newborn & Baby Children's Health Children's Vaccines Raising Fit Kids Pets Healthy Cats Healthy Dogs Featured Topics When Autism Grows Up Top Children's Hospitals Ranked Antidepressants Linked to Birth Defects When Are You Contagious? Which Birth Control Is Best for You? New Test May Help Spot Male Infertility News View All Why You Should Rethink That Drink Before Dinner New Clues Why Mosquitoes Find You Irresistible ArticleWomen: Too Much Sitting Ups Cancer Risk ArticlePopular Heartburn Meds Can Have Health Risks ArticleDo Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? WebMD Health Experts and Community Talk to health experts and other people like you in WebMD's Communities. It's a safe forum where you can create or participate in support groups and discussions about health topics that interest you. Second Opinion Read expert perspectives on popular health topics. Community Connect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life. Newsletters Sign up to receive WebMD's award-winning content delivered to your inbox.Sign Up Diabetes: Keys to Better Daily Control 11 No-Alcohol Drinks for People With Diabetes Smart Swaps No doubt: Water is the perfect drink. It doesn't have calories, sugar, or carbs, and it's as close as a tap. If you're after something tastier, though, you've got options. Some tempting or seemingly healthy drinks aren't great for you, but you can make swaps or easy homemade versions of many of them. These tasty treats can fit into your diabetes diet and still satisfy your cravings. 1. Chocolate Milk This treat may remind you of the school lunchroom, but it’s a good calcium-rich choice for grown-ups as well. Low-fat chocolate milk can be a good post-workout recovery drink. The bad news: Ready-made brands come packed with sugar. Try this at home: Mix 1% milk, 3 teaspoons of cocoa powder, and 2 tablespoons of the zero-calorie sweetener of your choice. It saves you 70 calories, 16 grams of carbs, and 2 grams of fat compared to 1 cup of store-bought, reduced-fat chocolate milk. 2. Sweet Tea A 16-ounce fast-food version might have up to 36 grams of carbs. That’s a lot of sugar, especially when there are carb-free choices, like sugar-free iced tea or iced tea crystals, that are just as satisfying. But you can also easily make your own: Steep tea with your favorite crushed fruit (raspberries are a good choice). Strain, chill, and then sweeten with your choice of no-calorie sugar substitute. That’s a tall glass of refreshment. 3. Orange Juice OJ tastes good, but with 26 grams of carbs in one cup, you're a lot better off eating a whole orange instead. The fiber will help keep you full. If you really want to drink it, try an orange-flavored light fruit drink. Look for a brand with 3 grams of carbs, 15 calories, and 100% of your daily vitamin C. 4. Chai Latte It’s sweet, spicy, fragrant, and creamy. What’s not to love? The typical coffeehouse version packs a whopping 33 grams of carbs. But you can easily make one that's a lot lighter. Steep one or two chai tea bags in a cup of unsweetened almond milk, and spice it up with cinnamon and black pepper for an extra flavor kick. That’s a warm treat with less than 1 gram of carbs. 5. Lemonade Nothing says summer like this drink. But 16 ounces of a popular brand served at restaurants gives you 60 grams of carbs. Your best bet is to make lemonade at home. Mix water, fresh-squeezed lemons, zero-calorie sweetener, and ice for a truly refreshing beverage without a single carb or calorie in sight. 6. Hot Chocolate It’s the ultimate in decadent drinks. Coffeehouse-style versions of this classic are packed with carbs. A typical medium hot chocolate made with low-fat milk has 60 grams. Good news: You can make your own satisfying mug for less than half that. Mix 1 cup of low-fat milk with 2 squares of 70% dark chocolate, 1 teaspoon of vanilla, and a little cinnamon. Melt in a saucepan, and enjoy it for only 23 grams of carbs. 7. Apple Cider Few things beat a hot, fragrant cup of this when there’s a chill in the air and the leaves are turning colors. And though it may be farm-fresh, the cider packs the same amount of carbs per serving as plain-old apple juice -- 26 grams per cup. Instead, choose a light apple juice cocktail, and you’ll cut the carbs and calories in half. 8. Energy Drinks These pack plenty of caffeine per ounce, so depending on how much you drink, you could be guzzling way more than you realize. That’s a problem, since caffeine can raise your blood pressure and heart rate. Still want a jolt? Pick a sugar-free drink, and limit your total caffeine to no more than 400 milligrams over the course of a day. 9. Fruit Smoothie It seems like a healthy choice, but store-bought versions almost always include a lot of carbs and sugar. One 12-ounce mango-flavored smoothie from a popular chain, for example, has 58.5 grams of carbs. That’s equal to an apple and a sandwich combined. Substitute a homemade berry smoothie, with half a cup each of blueberries, strawberries, and banana. Blend with some ice and enjoy for about half the amount of carbs. 10. Ginger Ale A 20-ounce bottle can have 60 grams of carbs. You can have more of the zesty flavor with none of the sugar or carbs by adding a spoonful of finely grated ginger to a glass of seltzer water. Add a bit of your favorite zero-calorie sugar substitute, and enjoy. 11. Café Mocha Chocolate and coffee are a great pairing. The bittersweet flavor combo makes it a popular coffeehouse drink. But some have more than 300 calories and 40 grams of carbs, so it’s not your best choice. Instead, make your mocha by mixing 1 cup of brewed coffee with 1 tablespoon of cocoa powder, 2 tablespoons of low-fat milk, and a little of your favorite zero-calorie sugar substitute. You’ll save more than 300 calories, 40 grams of carbs, and 14 grams of fat. Loading Next Slideshow: Sources IMAGES PROVIDED BY: 1)    Thinkstock / ShotShare / iStock 2)    Thinkstock /  bhofack2 / iStock 3)    Thinkstock / Ryan McVay / Photodisc 4)    Getty Images / iStockphoto 5)    Thinkstock / Stacey Newman / iStock 6)    Thinkstock / HandmadePictures / iStock 7)    Thinkstock / tashka2000 / iStock 8)    Thinkstock / MSPhotographic / iStock 9)    Getty Images / Stockbyte 10)  Thinkstock / Dar1930 / iStock 11)  Thinkstock / sihasakprachum / iStock 12)   Thinkstock / OTOBOR / iStock SOURCES: Marina Chaparro, MPH, RDN, Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics spokeswoman, Miami.  Toby Smithson, MSNW, RDN, founder, DiabetesEveryDay.com. Dawn Noe, RDN, CDE, Cleveland Clinic Foundation Spaccarotella, K. The Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, December 2011. Pritchett, K. Medicine and Sports Science, 2012. McDonalds.com. Silk.com. Tropicana.com. Dr. Pepper Snapple Group. Reviewed by Michael Dansinger, MD on August 19, 2015 This tool does not provide medical advice. See additional information THIS TOOL DOES NOT PROVIDE MEDICAL ADVICE. It is intended for general informational purposes only and does not address individual circumstances. It is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment and should not be relied on to make decisions about your health. Never ignore professional medical advice in seeking treatment because of something you have read on the WebMD Site. If you think you may have a medical emergency, immediately call your doctor or dial 911. © 2014 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD Slideshows View our slideshows to learn more about your health. Psoriasis 14 home remedies to try. Rheumatoid Arthritis Is it the source of your aches? Foods for Focus Eat these to help you stay on task. Multiple Sclerosis Warning signs to watch out for. Attention Killers What steals your concentration? Cancer Does THIS cause cancer? Related Content Article Diabetes Care at Home Slideshow 11 No-Alcohol Drinks for People With Diabetes Video Exercise and Your Blood Sugar Video Understanding Low-Carb Diets Article Complications and What You Can Do Further Reading Article Off the Couch and On the Move Article 4 Ways to Quiet Your Inner Critic Article Keys to Success Slideshow 20 Reasons for Blood Sugar Swings Video Injections: Don’t Fear the Needle Article Meds and Daily Life Video Assemble Your Care Team Article Finding the Right Treatment Article Plan Ahead and Pack Smart for Trips Article Straight Talk With Family and Friends Article Diabetes Care at Home Article Eating on the Go When You Have Type 2 Diabetes About About WebMD Contact Us Careers Newsletter Corporate WebMD Health Services Site Map Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility WebMD Network Medscape Medscape Reference MedicineNet eMedicineHealth RxList BootsWebMD First Aid WebMD Magazine WebMD Health Record WebMD Mobile Dictionary Our Apps WebMD Mobile WebMD App Pregnancy Baby Allergy Pain Coach WebMD Magazine Medscape TheHeart For Sponsors Advertise with Us Advertising Policy Sponsor Policy AdChoices ©2005-2016 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.