Skip to content Check Your Symptoms Find A Doctor Sign In Sign UpSubscribe My ProfileWelcome My Tools My WebMD Pages My Account Sign Out Health A-Z Drugs & Supplements Living Healthy Family & Pregnancy News & Experts Common Conditions View All ADD/ADHD Allergies Arthritis Cancer Cold, Flu & Cough Depression Diabetes Eye Health Heart Disease Heartburn/GERD Pain Management Sexual Conditions Skin Problems Sleep Disorders Featured Topics See What Severe Psoriasis Looks Like 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Feeling Your Best When You Have MS Symptom Checker Health Concern On Your Mind? See what your medical symptoms could mean, and learn about possible conditions.Get Started Resources Second OpinionRead expert perspectives on popular health topics CommunitiesConnect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life Insurance GuideGet ready for changes to your health care coverage Physician DirectoryFind a doctor in your area Pain Coach Track your pain levels, triggers, and treatments. Set goals and get tips with our app. Download Find Information About: Drugs & Supplements Get information and reviews on prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, vitamins, and supplements. Search by name or medical condition. Find or Review a Drug Find or Review a Vitamin or Supplement Check for Drug Interactions Drugs Basics & Safety Commonly Abused Drugs What's Your Medication IQ? Taking Medications During Pregnancy Pill Identifier Having trouble identifying your pills? Enter the shape, color, or imprint of your prescription or OTC drug. Our pill identification tool will display pictures that you can compare to your pill.Get Started My Medicine Save your medicine, check interactions, sign up for FDA alerts, create family profiles and more.Get Started Drug News Vitamin B12 May Not Help Some Seniors Do Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? New Schizophrenia Drug Approved FDA: New, Stronger Warning for NSAIDs New Drug Approved for Heart Failure Mobile Drug Information App Drug, supplement, and vitamin information on the go. Download Featured Content Improve Your Concentration These Foods and Drinks Can Help Allergy App Fight allergies with daily forecasts, local alerts, and personalized tips. Download Living Healthy Centers View All Diet, Food & Fitness Diet & Weight Management Weight Loss & Obesity Food & Recipes Fitness & Exercise Beauty & Balance Healthy Beauty Health & Balance Sex & Relationships Oral Care Living Well Women's Health Men's Health Aging Well Teens Fit Kids Featured Topics Overcome Your Fear of Public Speaking New Clues Why Mosquitos Attack You Why Do You ... ACHOO!? Flash Fitness: Try the 7-Minute Workout Have Sensitive Teeth? See What to Do 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Featured Content What's That Rash? How to Treat Childhood Skin Problems Pregnancy App The big day is coming! Get organized and track baby's weekly development. Download Family and Pregnancy Centers Pregnancy Trying to Conceive First Trimester Second Trimester Third Trimester Parenting Newborn & Baby Children's Health Children's Vaccines Raising Fit Kids Pets Healthy Cats Healthy Dogs Featured Topics When Autism Grows Up Top Children's Hospitals Ranked Antidepressants Linked to Birth Defects When Are You Contagious? Which Birth Control Is Best for You? New Test May Help Spot Male Infertility News View All Why You Should Rethink That Drink Before Dinner New Clues Why Mosquitoes Find You Irresistible ArticleWomen: Too Much Sitting Ups Cancer Risk ArticlePopular Heartburn Meds Can Have Health Risks ArticleDo Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? WebMD Health Experts and Community Talk to health experts and other people like you in WebMD's Communities. It's a safe forum where you can create or participate in support groups and discussions about health topics that interest you. Second Opinion Read expert perspectives on popular health topics. Community Connect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life. Newsletters Sign up to receive WebMD's award-winning content delivered to your inbox.Sign Up WebMD Home Diabetes Health Center Diabetes Guide Email a Friend Print Article Diabetes Trends: Diabetes Symptoms Diabetic Diet Gestational Diabetes Health Check: Type 2 Diabetes Prediabetes Insulin Pump Diabetes Health Center Tools & Resources Is Your Diabetes Under Control? 10-Minute Diabetes Tips Diabetes: How to Count Carbs Diabetes Diet Dos and Don'ts Diabetes Menu Plan 4 Every Day Tips for Diabetes Select An Article All Subchapter Articles:Diagnosis and TreatmentIs There a Diabetes Cure?Your Diabetes Care TeamInsulin for DiabetesTypes of InsulinInsulin Questions for Your DoctorInhaled InsulinNon-Insulin Diabetes InjectablesOral Medications for Diabetes Types of Insulin for Diabetes Treatment In this article What Type of Insulin Is Best for My Diabetes? How Are Doses Scheduled? Exceptions to Insulin Dosing and Timing Font Size A A A Many forms of insulin treat diabetes. They're grouped by how fast they start to work and how long their effects last. The types of insulin include: Rapid-acting Short-acting Intermediate-acting Long-acting Pre-mixed Assess Yourself: Is Your Type 1 Diabetes Under Control? What Type of Insulin Is Best for My Diabetes? Your doctor will work with you to prescribe the type of insulin that's best for you and your diabetes. Making that choice will depend on many things, including: How you respond to insulin. (How long it takes the body to absorb it and how long it remains active varies from person to person.) Lifestyle choices. The type of food you eat, how much alcohol you drink, or how much exercise you get will all affect how your body uses insulin. Your willingness to give yourself multiple injections per day How often you check your blood sugar Your age Your goals for managing your blood sugar Afrezza, a rapid-acting inhaled insulin, is FDA-approved for use before meals for both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. The drug peaks in your blood in about 15-20 minutes and it clears your body in 2-3 hours. It must be used along with long-acting insulin in people with type 1 diabetes. The chart below lists the types of injectable insulin with details about onset (the length of time before insulin reaches the bloodstream and begins to lower blood sugar), peak (the time period when it best lowers blood sugar) and duration (how long insulin continues to work). These three things may vary. The final column offers some insight into the "coverage" provided by the different insulin types in relation to mealtime. Type of Insulin & Brand Names Onset Peak Duration Role in Blood Sugar Management Rapid-Acting Lispro (Humalog) 15-30 min. 30-90 min 3-5 hours Rapid-acting insulin covers insulin needs for meals eaten at the same time as the injection. This type of insulin is often used with longer-acting insulin. Aspart (Novolog) 10-20 min. 40-50 min. 3-5 hours Glulisine (Apidra) 20-30 min. 30-90 min. 1-2½ hours Short-Acting Regular (R) humulin or novolin 30 min. -1 hour 2-5 hours 5-8 hours Short-acting insulin covers insulin needs for meals eaten within 30-60 minutes. Velosulin (for use in the insulin pump) 30 min.-1 hour 2-3 hours 2-3 hours Intermediate-Acting NPH (N) 1-2 hours 4-12 hours 18-24 hours Intermediate-acting insulin covers insulin needs for about half the day or overnight. This type of insulin is often combined with a rapid- or short-acting type. Long-Acting Long-acting insulin covers insulin needs for about one full day. This type is often combined, when needed, with rapid- or short-acting insulin. Insulin glargine (Lantus, Toujeo) 1-1½ hour No peak time. Insulin is delivered at a steady level. 20-24 hours Insulin detemir (Levemir) 1-2 hours 6-8 hours Up to 24 hours Pre-Mixed* Humulin 70/30 30 min. 2-4 hours 14-24 hours These products are generally taken two or three times a day before mealtime. Novolin 70/30 30 min. 2-12 hours Up to 24 hours Novolog 70/30 10-20 min. 1-4 hours Up to 24 hours Humulin 50/50 30 min. 2-5 hours 18-24 hours Humalog mix 75/25 15 min. 30 min.-2½ hours 16-20 hours *Premixed insulins combine specific amounts of intermediate-acting and short-acting insulin in one bottle or insulin pen. (The numbers following the brand name indicate the percentage of each type of insulin.)   1 | 2 Next Page > Next Article: Diagnosis and TreatmentIs There a Diabetes Cure?Your Diabetes Care TeamInsulin for DiabetesTypes of InsulinInsulin Questions for Your DoctorInhaled InsulinNon-Insulin Diabetes InjectablesOral Medications for Diabetes Diabetes Guide 1 Overview & Facts 2 Symptoms & Causes 3 Diagnosis & Tests 4 Treatments 5 Living With 6 Complications Continue reading below... Top Picks Garcinia Cambogia: Will It Lower My Blood Sugar? Images of Diabetic Retinopathy and Other Vision Problems Is Your Type 2 Diabetes Under Control? Dos and Don'ts: Diabetes and Alcohol Insulin: Questions for Your Doctor Best and Worst Foods for Diabetes Further Reading: Slideshow: Control Your Blood Sugars Slideshow: Blood Sugar Control, Insulin, and Diabetes About Insulin Insulin Bottles and Cartridges Types of Insulin-Topic Overview Insulin Shots and Your Daily Life Diabetes and Insulin What You Need To Know See All Insulin Types Topics Insulin Types Home Medical Reference Features Video News Archive Diabetes Health Center General Diabetes Type 1 Diabetes Type 2 Diabetes Gestational Diabetes News Reference Slideshows Quizzes Videos Diabetes Guide 1 Overview & Facts 2 Symptoms & Causes 3 Diagnosis & Tests 4 Treatments 5 Living With 6 Complications Related to Diabetes Blood Glucose Tracker Eye Problems Insulin Living Healthy Metabolic Syndrome Oral Care Prediabetes More Related Topics Today on WebMD Type 2 Diabetes Symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and more. Muscle Moves for Diabetes 10 strength training exercises.   Avoiding Diabetes Complications 12 practical tips. Celebrities With Diabetes Stars living with type 1 or type 2.   Video Bariatric Surgery and Type 2 Diabetes Article Can Vinegar Treat Diabetes?   Tool Tips for Staying Healthy With Diabetes Video Benefits of Eating Low GI   Article Prediabetes: 7 Steps to Take Now Slideshow Type 2 Diabetes: What Is It?   Tool Track Carbs and Calories Slideshow What Your Feet Say About Your Health   WebMD Special Sections Managing Diabetes, Insulin, and High Blood Sugar Your Child and Type 1 Diabetes Type 2 Diabetes: Learn How New Treatments Can Help You Diabetes: Keeping Up With Your Active Life Control Blood Sugar: Diet, Exercise, and Insulin Tips Ready to Take Control of Your Diabetes? Diabetes and Your Skin Living with Diabetes Assessment Making Progress With Diabetes Diabetes: Keys to Better Daily Control Diabetes as You Age: Stay Active, Live Better Diabetes: Ready to Lower Your Blood Sugar? Health Solutions From Our Sponsors Exercise & OA Knee Pain RA and Pregnancy Lung Cancer Treatment Breast Cancer Advances IBS-C Symptoms? Facts About Skin Cancer Help with Painful Knees New Way to Take Insulin Diagnosed with Cancer? Melanoma Immunotherapy CML Treatment Plan Aortic Valve Stenosis? OA Doctor Answers Hodgkin Lymphoma Treatment Frequent Constipation? More From WebMD: Hemophilia Treatment|RA Basics|Psoriasis|MS Assessment|Hemophilia Questions|Anaphylaxis|ADHD in Children|Diabetes Diet|Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma |Breast Cancer|Toenail Fungus|Incontinence|COPD|Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials|Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis Find us on: URAC: Accredited Health Web Site AdChoices About WebMD Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Advertising Policy Accessibility Sponsor Policy Site Map Careers Contact Us Medscape Reference eMedicineHealth RxList Medscape MedicineNet BootsWebMD WebMD Corporate WebMD Health Services First Aid WebMD Magazine WebMD Health Record WebMD Mobile Newsletters Dictionary Physician Directory ©2005-2016 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.