Skip to content Check Your Symptoms Find A Doctor Sign In Sign UpSubscribe My ProfileWelcome My Tools My WebMD Pages My Account Sign Out Health A-Z Drugs & Supplements Living Healthy Family & Pregnancy News & Experts Common Conditions View All ADD/ADHD Allergies Arthritis Cancer Cold, Flu & Cough Depression Diabetes Eye Health Heart Disease Heartburn/GERD Pain Management Sexual Conditions Skin Problems Sleep Disorders Featured Topics See What Severe Psoriasis Looks Like 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Feeling Your Best When You Have MS Symptom Checker Health Concern On Your Mind? See what your medical symptoms could mean, and learn about possible conditions.Get Started Resources Second OpinionRead expert perspectives on popular health topics CommunitiesConnect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life Insurance GuideGet ready for changes to your health care coverage Physician DirectoryFind a doctor in your area Pain Coach Track your pain levels, triggers, and treatments. Set goals and get tips with our app. Download Find Information About: Drugs & Supplements Get information and reviews on prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, vitamins, and supplements. Search by name or medical condition. Find or Review a Drug Find or Review a Vitamin or Supplement Check for Drug Interactions Drugs Basics & Safety Commonly Abused Drugs What's Your Medication IQ? Taking Medications During Pregnancy Pill Identifier Having trouble identifying your pills? Enter the shape, color, or imprint of your prescription or OTC drug. Our pill identification tool will display pictures that you can compare to your pill.Get Started My Medicine Save your medicine, check interactions, sign up for FDA alerts, create family profiles and more.Get Started Drug News Vitamin B12 May Not Help Some Seniors Do Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? New Schizophrenia Drug Approved FDA: New, Stronger Warning for NSAIDs New Drug Approved for Heart Failure Mobile Drug Information App Drug, supplement, and vitamin information on the go. Download Featured Content Improve Your Concentration These Foods and Drinks Can Help Allergy App Fight allergies with daily forecasts, local alerts, and personalized tips. Download Living Healthy Centers View All Diet, Food & Fitness Diet & Weight Management Weight Loss & Obesity Food & Recipes Fitness & Exercise Beauty & Balance Healthy Beauty Health & Balance Sex & Relationships Oral Care Living Well Women's Health Men's Health Aging Well Teens Fit Kids Featured Topics Overcome Your Fear of Public Speaking New Clues Why Mosquitos Attack You Why Do You ... ACHOO!? Flash Fitness: Try the 7-Minute Workout Have Sensitive Teeth? See What to Do 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Featured Content What's That Rash? How to Treat Childhood Skin Problems Pregnancy App The big day is coming! Get organized and track baby's weekly development. Download Family and Pregnancy Centers Pregnancy Trying to Conceive First Trimester Second Trimester Third Trimester Parenting Newborn & Baby Children's Health Children's Vaccines Raising Fit Kids Pets Healthy Cats Healthy Dogs Featured Topics When Autism Grows Up Top Children's Hospitals Ranked Antidepressants Linked to Birth Defects When Are You Contagious? Which Birth Control Is Best for You? New Test May Help Spot Male Infertility News View All Why You Should Rethink That Drink Before Dinner New Clues Why Mosquitoes Find You Irresistible ArticleWomen: Too Much Sitting Ups Cancer Risk ArticlePopular Heartburn Meds Can Have Health Risks ArticleDo Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? WebMD Health Experts and Community Talk to health experts and other people like you in WebMD's Communities. It's a safe forum where you can create or participate in support groups and discussions about health topics that interest you. Second Opinion Read expert perspectives on popular health topics. Community Connect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life. Newsletters Sign up to receive WebMD's award-winning content delivered to your inbox.Sign Up WebMD Home Diabetes Health Center Diabetes Slideshows Email a Friend Print Article Slideshow: Diabetes and Your Mouth Loading Next Slideshow 4 Signs You May Have a Problem Diabetes puts you at risk for dental problems. It impairs the ability to fight bacteria in your mouth. Having high blood sugar encourages bacteria to grow and contributes to gum disease. You may have gum disease if you have: Gums that are red, sore, bleeding, or swollen, or that pull away from your teeth Loose teeth Chronic bad breath An irregular bite or dentures that don't fit well Control Diabetes to Keep Your Smile Well-controlled diabetes contributes to a healthy mouth. If you have poorly controlled or high blood sugar, your risk increases for dry mouth, gum disease, tooth loss, and fungal infections like thrush. Since infections can also make blood sugar rise, your diabetes may become even harder to control. Keeping your mouth healthy can help you manage your blood sugar. See Your Dentist Regularly People with diabetes are prone to oral infections. You should get dental checkups at least twice a year. Let your dentist know you have diabetes and what medicines you take. Regular checkups and professional cleanings can help keep a mouth healthy. And a dentist can teach you the best ways to care for your teeth and gums at home. Keep Plaque at Bay Sticky plaque -- food, saliva, and bacteria -- starts to form on your teeth after you eat, releasing acids that attack tooth enamel. Untreated plaque turns into tartar, which builds under gum lines and is hard to remove with flossing. The longer it stays on your teeth, the more harmful it is. Bacteria in plaque causes inflammation and leads to gum disease. Having high blood sugar often makes gum disease worse. Brush Daily, Brush Right Brushing your teeth twice a day not only keeps your breath sweet, but also helps rid the mouth of bacteria that makes up plaque and can lead to oral infections. To brush properly, point bristles at a 45-degree angle against the gums. Use gentle back-and-forth strokes all over your teeth -- in front, in back, and on chewing surfaces -- for two minutes. If holding a toothbrush is hard for you, try an electric toothbrush. Also brush your gums and tongue. Floss Every Day Flossing helps control plaque. It can reach where a toothbrush can't, like between the teeth. Floss daily with floss and interdental cleaners that carry the American Dental Association (ADA) seal. Ask your dentist for tips if you're not sure how to floss. Like everything else, flossing gets easier with practice. Take Care of Your Dentures Loose-fitting or poorly maintained dentures can lead to gum irritation, sores, and infections. It's important to talk to your dentist about any changes in the fit of your dentures. When you have diabetes, you are at a higher risk of fungal infections like thrush and mouth sores that are tough to heal. And poorly maintained dentures can contribute to thrush, too. It's important to remove and clean dentures daily to help reduce your risk of infection. Toss the Tobacco Tobacco products -- including cigarettes, cigars, smokeless tobacco, and pipes -- are bad for anyone's mouth. But if you have diabetes and you smoke, you are at even greater risk of developing gum disease. Tobacco can damage gum tissue and cause receding gums. It can also speed up bone and tissue loss, leading to lost teeth. Motivate yourself to quit. List your reasons for quitting, set a date, and get the support of family and friends. Prepare for Oral Surgery Well-controlled blood sugar reduces your risk of infection and speeds healing. If you need oral surgery, tell your dentist and surgeon you have diabetes beforehand. Your doctor may recommend that you wait to have surgery until your blood sugars are under control. 4 Steps to Protect Your Health The same steps that ensure a healthy mouth also help you manage diabetes. Eat a healthy diet. Don't smoke. Keep up with your diabetes medications. See your dentist regularly to reduce the risk of developing a serious problem.   Know the Warning Signs Regular dental checkups are important because your dentist can spot gum disease even when you don't have any pain or symptoms. But you should examine your teeth and gums yourself for early signs of trouble. Infections can move fast. If you notice redness, swelling, bleeding, loose teeth, dry mouth, pain, or any other oral symptoms that worry you, talk to your dentist right away. More Reading on Diabetes and Oral Health Dental Care and Diabetes What to Make of Bad Breath Video: Oral Hygiene With Diabetes What Your Dental Health Says About You WebMD Diabetes Community Get the Truth About Diet and Your Oral Health Sign Up for WebMD’s Daily Newsletter Previous 1/12 Next Previous 1/12 Next Reviewed by Alfred D. Wyatt Jr., DMD on April 14, 2014 Sources: IMAGES PROVIDED BY: (1)    GAIA / DESPINA / BSIP (2)    BELMONTE / BSIP (3)    altrendo images / Altrendo (4)    Science Photo Library / SPL RF (5)    Dorling Kindersley (6)    Stockbyte (7)    mauritius images (8)    LEMOINE / BSIP (9)    Yoko Aziz / AGE Fotostock (10)  Jose Luis Pelaez / Blend Images (11)  Sinclair Lea / Phototeque Oredia   REFERENCES: South Dakota Department of Health, Diabetes Prevention and Control Program: "Diabetes and Your Mouth." American Diabetes Association: "Warning Signs," "Diabetes and Oral Health Problems," "Frequently Asked Questions," "More on the Mouth." National Institutes of Health, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases: "Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your teeth and gums healthy." Ohio State University Medical Center: "Diabetes and Periodontal (Gum) Disease." Cleveland Clinic: "Your Guide to Managing Diabetes." American Dental Association: "Diabetes," "Cleaning Your Teeth and Gums." "Consumer Resources," "Diabetes tips for good oral health," "Smoking and Tobacco Cessation," "Cancer, Oral." Greater St. Louis Dental Hygienists' Association: "What is Plaque and Tartar?" National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research: "Periodontal (Gum) Disease: Causes, Symptoms, and Treatments" National Caregivers Library: "Mouth Care and Diabetes." University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics: "Thrush." Metzer, B. American Medical Association Guide to Living With Diabetes, John Wiley and Sons, Inc. 2006. National Institutes of Health: "Smoking - tips on how to quit." Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene: "Diabetes and Your Oral Health." Colgate Professional: "Diabetes and Oral Health." National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Disease, National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse (NDIC): "What I need to know about Physical Activity and Diabetes." International Diabetes Federation: "Diabetes and Oral Health - Information for the Public." This tool does not provide medical advice. See additional information: THIS TOOL DOES NOT PROVIDE MEDICAL ADVICE. It is intended for general informational purposes only and does not address individual circumstances. It is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment and should not be relied on to make decisions about your health. Never ignore professional medical advice in seeking treatment because of something you have read on the WebMD Site. If you think you may have a medical emergency, immediately call your doctor or dial 911. © 2014 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD Slideshows View our slideshows to learn more about your health. Psoriasis 14 home remedies to try. Rheumatoid Arthritis Is it the source of your aches? Foods for Focus Eat these to help you stay on task. Multiple Sclerosis Warning signs to watch out for. Attention Killers What steals your concentration? Cancer Does THIS cause cancer? Popular Reading on WebMD 7 Diet Tips That Really Work Cholesterol Concerns? Get Personalized Tips Quiz: Men’s Biggest Bedroom Worries Pill Identification Tool Food and Fitness Planner The Truth About Belly Fat Am I Pregnant? 5 Ways Pets Can Improve Your Health Advertisement Health Solutions From Our Sponsors Exercise & OA Knee Pain RA and Pregnancy Lung Cancer Treatment Breast Cancer Advances IBS-C Symptoms? Facts About Skin Cancer Help with Painful Knees New Way to Take Insulin Diagnosed with Cancer? Melanoma Immunotherapy CML Treatment Plan Aortic Valve Stenosis? OA Doctor Answers Hodgkin Lymphoma Treatment Frequent Constipation? More From WebMD: Hemophilia Treatment|RA Basics|Psoriasis|MS Assessment|Hemophilia Questions|Anaphylaxis|ADHD in Children|Diabetes Diet|Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma |Breast Cancer|Toenail Fungus|Incontinence|COPD|Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials|Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis Find us on: URAC: Accredited Health Web Site AdChoices About WebMD Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Advertising Policy Accessibility Sponsor Policy Site Map Careers Contact Us Medscape Reference eMedicineHealth RxList Medscape MedicineNet BootsWebMD WebMD Corporate WebMD Health Services First Aid WebMD Magazine WebMD Health Record WebMD Mobile Newsletters Dictionary Physician Directory ©2005-2016 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.