Skip to content Check Your Symptoms Find A Doctor Sign In Sign UpSubscribe My ProfileWelcome My Tools My WebMD Pages My Account Sign Out Health A-Z Drugs & Supplements Living Healthy Family & Pregnancy News & Experts Common Conditions View All ADD/ADHD Allergies Arthritis Cancer Cold, Flu & Cough Depression Diabetes Eye Health Heart Disease Heartburn/GERD Pain Management Sexual Conditions Skin Problems Sleep Disorders Featured Topics See What Severe Psoriasis Looks Like 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Feeling Your Best When You Have MS Symptom Checker Health Concern On Your Mind? See what your medical symptoms could mean, and learn about possible conditions.Get Started Resources Second OpinionRead expert perspectives on popular health topics CommunitiesConnect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life Insurance GuideGet ready for changes to your health care coverage Physician DirectoryFind a doctor in your area Pain Coach Track your pain levels, triggers, and treatments. Set goals and get tips with our app. Download Find Information About: Drugs & Supplements Get information and reviews on prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, vitamins, and supplements. Search by name or medical condition. Find or Review a Drug Find or Review a Vitamin or Supplement Check for Drug Interactions Drugs Basics & Safety Commonly Abused Drugs What's Your Medication IQ? Taking Medications During Pregnancy Pill Identifier Having trouble identifying your pills? Enter the shape, color, or imprint of your prescription or OTC drug. Our pill identification tool will display pictures that you can compare to your pill.Get Started My Medicine Save your medicine, check interactions, sign up for FDA alerts, create family profiles and more.Get Started Drug News Vitamin B12 May Not Help Some Seniors Do Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? New Schizophrenia Drug Approved FDA: New, Stronger Warning for NSAIDs New Drug Approved for Heart Failure Mobile Drug Information App Drug, supplement, and vitamin information on the go. Download Featured Content Improve Your Concentration These Foods and Drinks Can Help Allergy App Fight allergies with daily forecasts, local alerts, and personalized tips. Download Living Healthy Centers View All Diet, Food & Fitness Diet & Weight Management Weight Loss & Obesity Food & Recipes Fitness & Exercise Beauty & Balance Healthy Beauty Health & Balance Sex & Relationships Oral Care Living Well Women's Health Men's Health Aging Well Teens Fit Kids Featured Topics Overcome Your Fear of Public Speaking New Clues Why Mosquitos Attack You Why Do You ... ACHOO!? Flash Fitness: Try the 7-Minute Workout Have Sensitive Teeth? See What to Do 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Featured Content What's That Rash? How to Treat Childhood Skin Problems Pregnancy App The big day is coming! Get organized and track baby's weekly development. Download Family and Pregnancy Centers Pregnancy Trying to Conceive First Trimester Second Trimester Third Trimester Parenting Newborn & Baby Children's Health Children's Vaccines Raising Fit Kids Pets Healthy Cats Healthy Dogs Featured Topics When Autism Grows Up Top Children's Hospitals Ranked Antidepressants Linked to Birth Defects When Are You Contagious? Which Birth Control Is Best for You? New Test May Help Spot Male Infertility News View All Why You Should Rethink That Drink Before Dinner New Clues Why Mosquitoes Find You Irresistible ArticleWomen: Too Much Sitting Ups Cancer Risk ArticlePopular Heartburn Meds Can Have Health Risks ArticleDo Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? WebMD Health Experts and Community Talk to health experts and other people like you in WebMD's Communities. It's a safe forum where you can create or participate in support groups and discussions about health topics that interest you. Second Opinion Read expert perspectives on popular health topics. Community Connect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life. Newsletters Sign up to receive WebMD's award-winning content delivered to your inbox.Sign Up Diabetes Friday, March 27, 2015 5 Snacks to Stabilize Your Blood Sugars By Anna Panzarella, RDN Are you sticking to three healthy meals per day but still having a hard time stabilizing your glucose numbers? Many of my clients find it surprising that I recommend they actually eat more frequently than just three times per day. It seems counterintuitive to them – they think that if they’re trying to improve their eating habits they should be eating less not more. In reality, though, inconsistent eating habits or not eating for several hours between meals can make it increasingly difficult to stabilize blood glucose. Going hours between meals may lead to numbers that are too low, sending you towards the nearest vending machine or causing you to over-eat at your next meal. So, snacking between meals can be an essential part of daily diabetes management to help avoid major peaks and valleys in blood sugar ranges and also to prevent over-eating at mealtimes. But it’s the nutritional quality and portion sizes of your snacks that can either make or break your daily diabetes management plan. The goal when snacking is to raise your blood glucose numbers to a healthy level in between meals at a gradual pace. This can usually be accomplished by pairing a high-fiber carbohydrate with a bit of protein. While the complex carbohydrates work to increase your blood glucose numbers to a healthy range, the protein helps to slow this process to a steady speed, allowing for more stabilized numbers and consistent energy levels. Need some examples? Take a look at these perfect pairings that are easy to prepare and perfect for an on-the-go snack: 1. Veggies and Hummus; Hummus is a dip traditionally made of chickpeas, olive oil and sesame seed paste (tahini) and is rich in heart-healthy fats, protein and complex carbohydrates. Pair a couple of tablespoons of this Mediterranean favorite with crunchy, high-fiber veggies like cucumbers, carrots or celery for a tasty mid-day snack. 2. Greek Yogurt and Fresh Fruit: Yogurt and fruit is a great way to kick a sweet tooth craving without sending your blood sugars through the roof. Due to its unique straining process, Greek yogurt tends to be higher in protein and gut-healthy bacteria than other yogurt varieties. Unfortunately, many yogurts on the market tend to be sweetened with added syrups or sugar-laden preserves. Avoid an unnecessary sugar rush by opting for plain yogurt and sweeten it yourself with a handful of your favorite fresh fruit. 3. Apples and Nut Butter: Apples (with the skin left on) are a great source of fiber. Pair your favorite variety with a couple of tablespoons of natural nut or seed butter and you have a fantastic, energy-boosting snack. Keep an eye out for nut butters with a lengthy ingredient list that may contain added sugars or oils that are not heart healthy. Whether you’re opting for a spread made of peanuts, almonds, cashews or seeds, the ingredients should be as simple as possible – just nuts or seeds and salt. 4. Tuna Fish and Whole Grain Crackers: Canned tuna is an inexpensive way to get in a whopping dose of protein with the added benefits of omega-3 fatty acids, which some studies suggest can reduce inflammation in the body and may improve insulin sensitivity. Try a lightened-up version of traditional tuna salad by replacing calorie-dense mayo with plain, Greek yogurt or squeeze fresh lemon juice and add fresh-cracked pepper. Place on top of high-fiber, whole grain crackers for a good mix of complex carbs, healthy fats and satiating protein. 5. Homemade Energy Bars: Protein bars and energy bars seem to be all the rage these days and understandably so. With the myriad of varieties in most grocery stores and convenient packaging, it’s no surprise that many people opt for a bar when trying to choose a healthy snack. But buyers beware; many seemingly healthy bars can rack up as many grams of added sugar as your typical candy bar or have long lists of processed ingredients. Try making a batch of your own bars by mixing your favorite selection of fiber-rich nuts, dried fruits or oats. Check out different recipes for ideas on how to blend ingredients for the perfect bar without the added thickeners, sweeteners or processed protein powders. Adding one to three healthy snacks per day can be extremely beneficial for diabetes management. Just make sure to give consideration to portion sizes – for your snacks and your meals. Further reading: How to Count Carbs When You Use Insulin Your Guide to Eating Healthy Carbs Best and Worst Diabetes Meals 20 Reasons for Blood Sugar Swings Blood Sugar and Insulin: Get the Facts Editor’s Note: Please note that comments go into a moderation queue prior to posting (so will not appear immediately). Comments that are in violation of WebMD terms and conditions will not be approved. Important: The opinions expressed in WebMD Second Opinion are solely those of the User, who may or may not have medical or scientific training. These opinions do not represent the opinions of WebMD. Second Opinion are... Expand The opinions expressed in WebMD Second Opinion are solely those of the User, who may or may not have medical or scientific training. These opinions do not represent the opinions of WebMD Second Opinion are not reviewed by a WebMD physician or any member of the WebMD editorial staff for accuracy, balance, objectivity, or any other reason except for compliance with our Terms and Conditions. Some of these opinions may contain information about treatments or uses of drug products that have not been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. WebMD does not endorse any specific product, service or treatment. Do not consider Second Opinion as medical advice. Never delay or disregard seeking professional medical advice from your doctor or other qualified healthcare provider because of something you have read on WebMD. You should always speak with your doctor before you start, stop, or change any prescribed part of your care plan or treatment. WebMD understands that reading individual, real-life experiences can be a helpful resource, but it is never a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment from a qualified health care provider. If you think you may have a medical emergency, call your doctor or dial 911 immediately. Hide Contributors Ilene Raymond Rush Ilene Raymond Rush is an award winning health and science freelance writer. Based on her own experiences with type 2 diabetes, she brings a personal take and a reporter’s eye to examine the best and newest methods of treating and controlling the disease. Anna Panzarella, RDN Anna Panzarella, RDN is an onsite wellness coach and coordinator for WebMD Health Services, where she provides one-on-one health coaching for Boeing’s employee wellness program in Seattle. She also conducts onsite wellness classes, prepares nutrition education materials for health coaching presentations and blogs about healthy eating. Topics Diagnosis Healthy Eating Lifestyle Living with Diabetes Research Testing Most Recent Diabetes Is Like ... a Dog? Read More Paleo for Type 2? Pros and Cons Read More It 'Takes 2' to Live With Type 2 Read More Newsletters Subscribe to free WebMD newsletters. WebMD Daily Subscribe WebMD Daily Subscribe to the WebMD Daily, and you'll get today's top health news and trending topics, and the latest and best information from WebMD. Men's Health Subscribe Men's Health Subscribe to the Men's Health newsletter for the latest on disease prevention, fitness, sex, nutrition, and more from WebMD. Women's Health Subscribe Women's Health Subscribe to the Women's Health newsletter for the latest on disease prevention, fitness, sex, diet, anti-aging, and more from WebMD. Submit By clicking Submit, I agree to the WebMD Terms & Conditions & Privacy Policy and understand that I may opt out of WebMD subscriptions at any time. You might also like FOOD & RECIPES Food & Fitness Planner BODY CALCULATOR Heart Rate Calculator BODY TRACKER Sleep Tracker Health Solutions From Our Sponsors Exercise & OA Knee Pain RA and Pregnancy Lung Cancer Treatment Breast Cancer Advances IBS-C Symptoms? Facts About Skin Cancer Help with Painful Knees New Way to Take Insulin Diagnosed with Cancer? Melanoma Immunotherapy CML Treatment Plan Aortic Valve Stenosis? OA Doctor Answers Hodgkin Lymphoma Treatment Frequent Constipation? More From WebMD: Hemophilia Treatment|RA Basics|Psoriasis|MS Assessment|Hemophilia Questions|Anaphylaxis|ADHD in Children|Diabetes Diet|Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma|Breast Cancer |Toenail Fungus|Incontinence|COPD|Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials|Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis Learn about WebMD Apps Find us on: Facebook Twitter View Site: Mobile | Desktop AdChoices AdChoices About WebMD | Advertise With Us | Terms of Use Privacy | Contact Us ©2005-2014 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information. Find us on: URAC: Accredited Health Web Site AdChoices About WebMD Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Advertising Policy Accessibility Sponsor Policy Site Map Careers Contact Us Medscape Reference eMedicineHealth RxList Medscape MedicineNet BootsWebMD WebMD Corporate WebMD Health Services First Aid WebMD Magazine WebMD Health Record WebMD Mobile Newsletters Dictionary Physician Directory ©2005-2016 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.