Skip to content Check Your Symptoms Find A Doctor Sign In Sign UpSubscribe My ProfileWelcome My Tools My WebMD Pages My Account Sign Out Health A-Z Drugs & Supplements Living Healthy Family & Pregnancy News & Experts Common Conditions View All ADD/ADHD Allergies Arthritis Cancer Cold, Flu & Cough Depression Diabetes Eye Health Heart Disease Heartburn/GERD Pain Management Sexual Conditions Skin Problems Sleep Disorders Featured Topics See What Severe Psoriasis Looks Like 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Feeling Your Best When You Have MS Symptom Checker Health Concern On Your Mind? See what your medical symptoms could mean, and learn about possible conditions.Get Started Resources Second OpinionRead expert perspectives on popular health topics CommunitiesConnect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life Insurance GuideGet ready for changes to your health care coverage Physician DirectoryFind a doctor in your area Pain Coach Track your pain levels, triggers, and treatments. Set goals and get tips with our app. Download Find Information About: Drugs & Supplements Get information and reviews on prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, vitamins, and supplements. Search by name or medical condition. Find or Review a Drug Find or Review a Vitamin or Supplement Check for Drug Interactions Drugs Basics & Safety Commonly Abused Drugs What's Your Medication IQ? Taking Medications During Pregnancy Pill Identifier Having trouble identifying your pills? Enter the shape, color, or imprint of your prescription or OTC drug. Our pill identification tool will display pictures that you can compare to your pill.Get Started My Medicine Save your medicine, check interactions, sign up for FDA alerts, create family profiles and more.Get Started Drug News Vitamin B12 May Not Help Some Seniors Do Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? New Schizophrenia Drug Approved FDA: New, Stronger Warning for NSAIDs New Drug Approved for Heart Failure Mobile Drug Information App Drug, supplement, and vitamin information on the go. Download Featured Content Improve Your Concentration These Foods and Drinks Can Help Allergy App Fight allergies with daily forecasts, local alerts, and personalized tips. Download Living Healthy Centers View All Diet, Food & Fitness Diet & Weight Management Weight Loss & Obesity Food & Recipes Fitness & Exercise Beauty & Balance Healthy Beauty Health & Balance Sex & Relationships Oral Care Living Well Women's Health Men's Health Aging Well Teens Fit Kids Featured Topics Overcome Your Fear of Public Speaking New Clues Why Mosquitos Attack You Why Do You ... ACHOO!? Flash Fitness: Try the 7-Minute Workout Have Sensitive Teeth? See What to Do 16 Tips to Help You Get Organized Featured Content What's That Rash? How to Treat Childhood Skin Problems Pregnancy App The big day is coming! Get organized and track baby's weekly development. Download Family and Pregnancy Centers Pregnancy Trying to Conceive First Trimester Second Trimester Third Trimester Parenting Newborn & Baby Children's Health Children's Vaccines Raising Fit Kids Pets Healthy Cats Healthy Dogs Featured Topics When Autism Grows Up Top Children's Hospitals Ranked Antidepressants Linked to Birth Defects When Are You Contagious? Which Birth Control Is Best for You? New Test May Help Spot Male Infertility News View All Why You Should Rethink That Drink Before Dinner New Clues Why Mosquitoes Find You Irresistible ArticleWomen: Too Much Sitting Ups Cancer Risk ArticlePopular Heartburn Meds Can Have Health Risks ArticleDo Supplements Give Athletes an Edge? WebMD Health Experts and Community Talk to health experts and other people like you in WebMD's Communities. It's a safe forum where you can create or participate in support groups and discussions about health topics that interest you. Second Opinion Read expert perspectives on popular health topics. Community Connect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life. Newsletters Sign up to receive WebMD's award-winning content delivered to your inbox.Sign Up WebMD Home Diabetes Health Center Type 2 Diabetes Guide Email a Friend Print Article Diabetes Trends: Diabetes Symptoms Diabetic Diet Gestational Diabetes Health Check: Type 2 Diabetes Prediabetes Insulin Pump Diabetes Health Center Tools & Resources Is Your Diabetes Under Control? 10-Minute Diabetes Tips Diabetes: How to Count Carbs Diabetes Diet Dos and Don'ts Diabetes Menu Plan 4 Every Day Tips for Diabetes Select An Article All Subchapter Articles:Slideshow: Type 2 Diabetes OverviewWhat Is Type 2 Diabetes?Quiz: Myths and Facts About Type 2 DiabetesPrediabetes: Symptoms, Diagnosis, Treatment, and MoreWhat Is Insulin Resistance? What Is Prediabetes? In this article Who Gets Type 2 Diabetes? What Are the Symptoms? How Is It Diagnosed? What's the Treatment? Font Size A A A This sneaky health condition has no symptoms. But it’s almost always present before you get type 2 diabetes. It means your blood sugar level is higher than normal, but not yet high enough for you to be diagnosed with the disease.  About 86 million people in the U.S. over age 20 have prediabetes. And doctors see the need to diagnose it more often. Treating it can prevent more serious health problems later on. These range from type 2 diabetes to problems with your heart, blood vessels, eyes, and kidneys.  By the time you’re diagnosed with diabetes, many of these problems have already taken hold. Learn About the Warning Signs of Type 2 Diabetes Who Gets Type 2 Diabetes? You’re most likely to get this disease if you: Have a family history of type 2 diabetes Had gestational diabetes or gave birth to a baby weighing more than 9 pounds Have polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) Are African-American, Native American, Latino, or Pacific Islander Are overweight or obese, especially around the middle (belly fat) Have high cholesterol, high triglycerides, low  HDL cholesterol, and a high LDL cholesterol Don't exercise Are older. People over 45 are most likely to get it. You should get tested for prediabetes if you meet the criteria above and you: Had an abnormal blood sugar reading in the past Have heart disease  Show signs of insulin resistance, which means your body produces insulin, but doesn't respond to it like it should What Are the Symptoms? Although most people with prediabetes have no symptoms, you might notice you're extra thirsty, pee a lot more, or have blurred vision or extreme fatigue. How Is It Diagnosed? Your doctor can perform one of three different blood tests -- the fasting plasma glucose test, the oral glucose tolerance test, or the hemoglobin A1c  test. The fasting plasma glucose test measures your blood sugar after an 8-hour fast. If your blood sugar level is higher than normal after the test, you may have prediabetes. The oral glucose tolerance test records your blood sugar after a fast and then again 2 hours after you have a very sweet drink. If your blood sugar is higher than normal 2 hours after the test, you may have prediabetes. The hemoglobin A1c test looks at your average blood sugar for the past 2 to 3 months. It can be used to see if your diabetes is under control or to diagnose the disease. 1 | 2 Next Page > Next Article: Slideshow: Type 2 Diabetes OverviewWhat Is Type 2 Diabetes?Quiz: Myths and Facts About Type 2 DiabetesPrediabetes: Symptoms, Diagnosis, Treatment, and MoreWhat Is Insulin Resistance? Type 2 Diabetes Guide 1 Overview & Facts 2 Symptoms & Causes 3 Diagnosis & Tests 4 Prevention & Treatment 5 Living With 6 Complications Continue reading below... Further Reading: Prediabetes: Chance of Digestive Side Effects From Treatment Prediabetes: Progression to Type 2 Diabetes Good Diabetes Care Is a Family Affair Does Prediabetes Lead to Diabetes? WebMD the Magazine's By the Numbers: Prediabetes Risk Factors for Prediabetes Prediabetes-Frequently Asked Questions See All Prediabetes Topics Prediabetes Home Medical Reference Features Video Slideshows & Images News Archive Type 2 Diabetes Guide 1 Overview & Facts 2 Symptoms & Causes 3 Diagnosis & Tests 4 Prevention & Treatment 5 Living With 6 Complications Related to Diabetes Blood Glucose Tracker Eye Problems Insulin Living Healthy Metabolic Syndrome Oral Care Prediabetes More Related Topics Today on WebMD Type 2 Diabetes Symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and more. Muscle Moves for Diabetes 10 strength training exercises.   Avoiding Diabetes Complications 12 practical tips. Celebrities With Diabetes Stars living with type 1 or type 2.   Video Bariatric Surgery and Type 2 Diabetes Article Can Vinegar Treat Diabetes?   Tool Tips for Staying Healthy With Diabetes Video Benefits of Eating Low GI   Article Prediabetes: 7 Steps to Take Now Slideshow Type 2 Diabetes: What Is It?   Tool Track Carbs and Calories Slideshow What Your Feet Say About Your Health   WebMD Special Sections Managing Diabetes, Insulin, and High Blood Sugar Your Child and Type 1 Diabetes Type 2 Diabetes: Learn How New Treatments Can Help You Diabetes: Keeping Up With Your Active Life Control Blood Sugar: Diet, Exercise, and Insulin Tips Ready to Take Control of Your Diabetes? Diabetes and Your Skin Living with Diabetes Assessment Making Progress With Diabetes Diabetes: Keys to Better Daily Control Diabetes as You Age: Stay Active, Live Better Diabetes: Ready to Lower Your Blood Sugar? Health Solutions From Our Sponsors Exercise & OA Knee Pain RA and Pregnancy Lung Cancer Treatment Breast Cancer Advances IBS-C Symptoms? Facts About Skin Cancer Help with Painful Knees New Way to Take Insulin Diagnosed with Cancer? Melanoma Immunotherapy CML Treatment Plan Aortic Valve Stenosis? OA Doctor Answers Hodgkin Lymphoma Treatment Frequent Constipation? More From WebMD: Hemophilia Treatment|RA Basics|Psoriasis|MS Assessment|Hemophilia Questions|Anaphylaxis|ADHD in Children|Diabetes Diet|Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma |Breast Cancer|Toenail Fungus|Incontinence|COPD|Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials|Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis Find us on: URAC: Accredited Health Web Site AdChoices About WebMD Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Advertising Policy Accessibility Sponsor Policy Site Map Careers Contact Us Medscape Reference eMedicineHealth RxList Medscape MedicineNet BootsWebMD WebMD Corporate WebMD Health Services First Aid WebMD Magazine WebMD Health Record WebMD Mobile Newsletters Dictionary Physician Directory ©2005-2016 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.